No.
All right.
People,
we are alive on the worldwide web.
Youtube for as long as they'll let us remain here.
I'm going to be alive for two hours today.
Uh,
we got a lot to talk about.
It's time to,
uh,
to get real.
We're gonna level about a few things.
I'm gonna share some insight into sort of what's going on,
uh,
with the show with Patrion,
with the future.
I know you guys have a budget union questions and,
uh,
I've got a lot of answers.
We'll do ask me anything.
Uh,
we're going to do a little,
a little fundraising for the show.
Uh,
but before I do anything,
I feel like most importantly,
I just got to catch you guys up on sort of where we're at at the moment and
just,
uh,
briefly a little bit on my adventure to get here and,
and sort of where we're at.
So as most of you guys know,
um,
I launched on Patrion,
we launched the Rubin Report on Patrion about two and a half years ago.
It was June of 2016 and at the time right before that,
we had obviously had the show on the young Turks for about two years.
Uh,
then we were very briefly at riot,
uh,
which was a startup and just,
we sort of were going in different directions.
Everyone in there was great but just didn't work out.
Uh,
and then we were at aura,
TV and aura back in September of 2015 is where I had my first interview with Sam
Harris,
who was the first time I had done a sort of one on one interview on camera.
And that basically when the,
when the show ended,
I was like,
Whoa,
that's what I want to do.
Like that's the best thing that I've done.
It was real and it was raw and it was important and relevant and true.
And I was like,
that's what we're going to do.
And really that was the day,
I think,
uh,
if I'm not mistaken,
it was September 9th,
2015 is when our first show on Ron up.
It was the one with Sam Harris and my life changed and that's where the show
started blowing up.
And then subsequently,
um,
you know,
we started going more and more into the free speech space and then all of the
things that I now care about,
we stayed at Ora till,
uh,
till about May of 2016 and at that point I realized at oral was great by the
way.
And we were at aura because Larry King,
who is the greatest interviewer of all time,
bar none,
uh,
he welcomed us there.
He,
I mean,
he welcomed me to do an interview show on his network,
pretty,
pretty freaking great.
Uh,
and Larry has become obviously a friend and mentor to me.
Um,
in any event,
the show was really blowing up and what we realized we're was basically was that
we were Kinda,
we were sort of getting bigger than the network at some level.
And I thought,
you know what?
We could do this alone.
I want to,
I want to own the show.
I want to control what we're doing.
I want,
I want to be my own boss and,
and figure out how to grow a business here in all of these things.
And then we launched on Patrion in June of 2016 and the night before we launched
on Patrion,
I said to David and the mirror who joined me,
left their jobs,
we all quit our jobs and left our health insurance and all that stuff just to
try this thing.
And we had no idea whether it was going to work.
Uh,
I said to that,
man,
I may have really screwed up the night before we launched.
I was like,
I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow.
Uh,
but within hours of launching,
we realized that we were going to hit our fundraising,
um,
measures the markers that we wanted to hit.
And then we went independent.
Uh,
we rented a studio for for about six months after that.
and then when we fully,
fully,
fully achieved independence was,
uh,
two years ago,
almost it was two years ago,
November.
So a little over two years ago,
uh,
when we were able to buy this house and now we absolutely control and own and
operate everything that we're doing.
I'm super proud of the small business that we've created here.
The same things that I talk about,
uh,
about personal responsibility and limited government and all of these things.
And,
and the,
the classical liberal and Libertarian ideas that I,
that I talk about all the time or the same ways that I try to run my business.
Uh,
we pay 100% of our employees health insurance.
We've got,
we've got part timers,
full timers,
all these things.
And I'm just,
I'm thrilled and elated about everything that's happened here.
Uh,
now I should mention because I think most of you are watching this right now
because of the Patriot in situation that for the two,
two plus years that we were on Patrion,
everything was fine.
There was the incident where they booted Lauren southern off the platform and I
had Jack Conti a little about a year and a half ago,
sit in that chair right over there,
uh,
and tell me that they were not going to police speech on their platform,
that what Lauren had done was taken part in what he termed manifest observable
behavior,
meaning behavior,
not just words,
behavior that she had partaken in.
I don't even want to get into the specifics of everything that,
that she did or didn't do.
It doesn't even matter actually.
But he said words themselves.
He said to me,
I think he said it on camera,
but he certainly said it off camera.
I would never run the risk of being booted.
Now,
first off,
he's just one guy that happens to run the company right now.
That's nice to hear,
I suppose.
But also it's like,
well,
I don't want to be on a platform that everyone else might be getting booted off
of,
but I'm just getting some assurance that I'm safe.
I think you do know that I care about free speech and free expression and all
that.
So anyway,
uh,
he said manifest observable behavior is what will get you booted if the,
if you do something off platform,
that's an actual action,
not just words.
Um,
manifest observable behavior mob,
the acronym mob,
mob behavior.
You can't make that up.
Uh,
but that's what they said.
We do it anyway.
A couple,
a couple of weeks ago,
I guess it's a,
about a month and a half ago now,
beginning of December,
uh,
Patriot booted Sargon of a cod,
Carl Benjamin,
who also has sat in that seat over there and who I've done collaborations with
over the years,
uh,
who's a classical liberal,
from the UK who years ago when I was still on the young Turks and I was really
waking up to what was going on with the left related to free speech and calling
everyone a racist and a bigot and homophobe in the rest of it and realizing how
illiberal the liberals had become a,
everybody online was saying,
you've got to talk to Sargon of,
of God.
He's the guy.
He's been doing it forever.
He's putting up all these videos.
Anyway,
I did talk to him and I think that that actually started some of my success in
this space.
Um,
anyway,
about a month and a half ago,
they booted him off Patrion with no warning because,
uh,
he used the n word on a video from February.
So from about 10 months prior on someone else's channel,
not his channel,
and not a video that was even posted to Patrion.
Now he used the word because he was using the all rights language against him.
This guy is against the outright.
He's an old school liberal.
I don't want to even get into every little specific of every little thing that
he has said.
Um,
but he is someone that debates all right people.
Okay,
so,
but the p the real point here is not even the specifics of the words,
it's that it's something that he said off platform,
not even on his own channel.
So it wasn't like he was doing something on his channel that wasn't on Patriot
and they said,
well,
you're funding that through patron.
It was something that was on someone else's channel all together.
They booted him.
There was no recourse,
there was no warning.
And this was obviously just as,
uh,
a truly massive move of the line.
And Sam Harris canceled his,
uh,
patriotic a couple of weeks ago.
Jordan Peterson and I have announced that we are canceling our Patriot on
January 15th.
This is the engine of the show.
This,
you know,
we're 100% fan funded here.
You guys,
you are 100% independent.
Really its independence more than anything else because of you guys.
So this is a major risk that I'm taking.
I'm,
I'm voluntarily giving up about 60 to 70% of our monthly rev,
um,
because I think it's the right thing to do.
And uh,
and I know that a lot of you guys are with me.
So there's a really interesting thing happening right now.
I'm watching our,
our monthly rev go down,
but I'm feeling very inspired because I'm getting so many messages from you guys
who are telling me,
uh,
you know,
I'm,
I'm going to stand up for something just like you are.
So it's pretty cool.
Okay.
So let me just do a couple of little pimp shout outs right here up top just to
tell you what we're doing and then we'll,
we'll go more back into the story and everything else.
So first off,
we are closing our patrion on January 15th.
We are trying to move everybody over to Dave rubin.com/donate and what,
uh,
what that's all about is it doesn't solve the biggest problems related to
censorship yet it doesn't solve the biggest problems related to payment
processors and things like that,
but it does remove one portion of the middleman here.
We don't need patrion anymore.
It's not like anyone's discovering us on patrion there.
They're taking a cut of the money and they're doing practices that I,
I don't believe in.
So we were trying to get as many people as possible that have supported us on
patrion or new people over Dave rubin.com/donate and uh,
and help support the show.
We'll see what happens.
Like there are many other ways that I can go about supporting the show.
I could be reading ads and I could be joining networks and all those things.
I like being independent.
I think we've done something really cool here and,
and it's really on a,
on you guys to see what the,
what the future will hold.
So what we're gonna do though for this live stream is if you donate 25 bucks
monthly while we're doing this live stream for the next two hours,
you are going to get a Reuben report,
Reuben select tee shirt.
Now these were the tee shirts there.
A limited amount of these that will never be printed again because these were
the tee shirts that we were given away to our patrons.
So there's a couple of hundred of them left.
And if you donate $25 or more monthly,
while I'm doing this,
you're going to get a tee shirt.
I should be selling a like crockpots or something.
I'm wearing that t shirt right now as you can see.
And if you donate $50 or more right now during this live stream,
we're going to send you a Reuben report mug.
This is a select member mug.
That was only for our patrons.
We've got a couple of hundred of them left.
I'm going to sign it for you right here and give you a shout out and anyone that
donates say five bucks or more during the live stream.
I will give you a shout out as well,
so I've got a trusty iPad here.
My team's going to be send to me names telling me what you guys are doing.
I'll answer all your questions related to all of this.
I just think it is time to take a stand.
It is just time to take a stand.
I don't take any great pleasure in this.
I don't want to fight Patriot and I don't want to fight Google.
I don't want to fight any of these things.
I want to do a talk show.
I want to have some fun and joy in my life,
but it's like enough of this,
this ever encroaching movement on what we can say and who's allowed to be on
what platform to say this or that.
And it's coming from more and more people who are not bigots or racists or
anything even close to that.
Although I would defend bigots and racists right to speech as well.
Um,
it's coming for people that just have some thoughts that are a little bit
outside of sort of the leftist,
progressive dogma that has just completely taken over academia and certainly
everything going on in Silicon Valley.
So a,
so please do what for the next two hours while we're here,
I'll,
I'll give you a shout out by name of Dave rubin.com/donate for five bucks and
above 25 bucks and above monthly you're getting a tee shirt,
50 bucks above and monthly you are getting a tee shirt and a Mug,
which I will sign right here for ya.
And uh,
oh quickly already we got some shout outs.
James,
Megan,
Jeffrey,
David,
Beverly,
Holly and John.
Welcome aboard guys.
Thank you very much.
I do appreciate it.
Um,
okay,
let's see.
So here's how I'm going to jump in with uh,
with some questions.
I'm going to start with questions from patrons right now because you guys have
been the lifeblood of this thing and I see some questions popping up there
first.
Uh,
I admire you leaving.
Do you,
do they still have you on the front page?
I guess a couple of people were saying that Patrion was still using me as a,
as someone that they were publicizing on the front page.
I don't know.
You know,
it's funny,
I sort of had a love hate relationship with them this whole time because I never
truly felt they really wanted us say the sams and the Jordans and the Bret
Weinstein's in me.
I never really felt that they kind of wanted us on there because they are a
lefty silicon valley thing.
Um,
so I don't know that they're using me or not right now,
uh,
to,
to pimp out this stuff.
Um,
but you know,
they never followed me on Twitter,
which always really bothered me.
I was like,
I'm making you guys a lot of money.
Like,
what are you doing anyway?
That's just like silly little dribble.
Um,
okay.
So,
uh,
but the point is we're gonna,
we're gonna stay on there until January 15th and then that day we'll,
we'll shut it down.
Um,
and also I do want to address something.
You know,
I saw a couple of people say,
well,
Sam did the right thing because you know,
he just immediately deleted it.
And I think it's worth mentioning that we all,
God bless them for doing that cod blessing,
the atheist for doing that.
Um,
you know,
we all have different considerations.
I have a business here with several employees.
Actually,
the day that we found this out,
I was in a,
I had speaking either that night or the night before,
I was in Montana,
a speaking at the University of Wyoming and we had just sent a part timer,
one of our part timers of fulltime employment contract.
So in the midst of this,
I'm just committing to a,
another full time person as I see all this.
So we all just have different considerations,
uh,
that we're,
that we're dealing with.
But I think we're doing the right thing.
And by the way,
I also don't begrudge any of the people that want to stay on Patrion and fight.
So I,
you know,
I have plenty of friends that are going to,
I think do just that or at least doing it at the moment and say Bret Weinstein
and uh,
and column Moriarty and plenty of other people.
It's like if you can stay in fight and change them,
we can all have different tactics on how we want to go about this rope a dope.
I think some of us leaving is probably good.
I think some people trying to fight and stay in change.
It's probably good.
It's,
it's all there.
Uh,
shout outs to Jason to whim to her Kahn who is getting a tee shirt and a mug.
That's right.
My man.
I'm going to sign that Mug for you right now.
This is a Reuben select member mug that will never be printed again because it
was for Patrion.
It has been signed and it's going to you my man.
Thank you very much.
Okay,
let's see.
Uh,
I'll jump on another patriot.
I want,
I see a lot coming in on super chat too,
which is great.
So I'll get to those.
Uh,
will you have the opportunity to pay through paypal?
Yeah.
If you go to Dave rubin.com/donate uh,
you can just use a credit card or you can use paypal there and you're good to
go.
So I should address,
actually that's a good point.
So look,
there's a couple of things happening here.
One of the,
one of the parts of,
of censorship that we have to deal with is what's going on with these tech
companies.
Are People be in shadow banned on Twitter?
Are the algorithms not showing certain videos?
Are People Getting unsubscribed?
All of these things that you guys know all about.
Now,
again,
I say this all the time,
these companies are allowed to do what they want.
I would like them to sort of uphold the principles of free speech that I hold
dear,
but I don't know that I can force a private company to do that.
Now,
if they were doing shady things in the boards of these companies,
the shareholders of these companies found out,
well now maybe there's some,
there might be some legal issues.
There would be some internal issues for sure.
Um,
but I don't think that the government coming in and breaking up these companies
is the right answer.
There could be certain legal things within that.
I'm not a lawyer that might have to be looked at.
Okay.
Now as far as,
uh,
the payment processor part of this.
So that's,
that's just the speech part of it,
right?
That's how can people be on platforms and be allowed to talk.
So it's like a guy like Carl Benjamin.
It's like if this guy isn't allowed to be on platforms,
then probably you watching this and half of the people you know,
and that may include me,
can't be on these platforms.
That's why this was important for somebody to start standing up to some of this
stuff.
The next level of this though,
so we have to deal with the platforms themselves who can be on platforms and
what are you allowed to do on these platforms?
And they can all have different terms of service.
Should,
should future platforms maybe only have to obey the laws of the land.
So anyone can say whatever they want except you can't make,
say a direct threat or you can't do a,
you know,
a fire alarm in a movie theater type thing.
Um,
or you know,
uh,
inspire a,
a terrorist attack,
something like that or call for a terrorist attack.
That would be an interesting way to do it.
Should a terms of service have more to do with the statement of principles that
the University of Chicago has put out defending free speech possibly.
So all of these things have to be dealt with and thought about and all of that.
The other part of this issue though is the payment process or part of this,
um,
because it turns out now,
and this is very annoying because nobody wants to fight mastercard and visa and
the rest of it,
I assure you I don't,
that you can catch there is there is a tweet that one time over the summer,
I think it was in August,
that Patrion tweeted to Robert Spencer who is in not Richard Spencer,
the outright guy,
Robert Spencer,
who is a New York Times bestselling author.
Now he happens to write a lot about Islam,
but he's a New York Times bestselling author.
They tweeted to him that they had to close their account and they said,
unfortunately,
because of pressure from mastercard.
So now it's like,
wait a minute,
are we going to be policing speech to the point that people won't even be able
to make money,
that people will not be able to exchange in,
in commerce and in goods?
Well now we've really ramped this thing up.
So these are major,
major,
major things that people better start thinking about that I know you watching
this are thinking about,
but everyone better start thinking about these things before it's too late.
Um,
okay.
A couple of shadows.
Jacob,
Raquel,
Earl and Edward,
Sean Glenn,
Joe Jeffrey Taylor,
Taylor's getting a mug.
I'm signing that Mug for Taylor right now.
What did I do with this?
With the marker?
Here we go.
Thank you Taylor.
I appreciate that you're getting a Mug,
my friend and Morgan's getting a mug.
All right,
Morgan,
here we go.
And guys,
I truly,
I just want to be clear.
First off.
Um,
I just want to be clear about how,
how truly appreciative of your support.
I am like you guys make this thing go.
Like if you believe in resetting some of the national conversation into
something decent,
if you believe that we can actually change the world through ideas as I believe,
um,
you're supporting the show because hopefully this gets out to more people and I
can promise you that it is like,
trust me,
I just did this world tour with Jordan where we're going to continue this and it
would probably another 40 or 50 stops in the spring and we're doing about 10
stops in Australia in February.
And it's like everywhere we went,
every airport I went,
whether it was in Helsinki or Stockholm or Copenhagen or a Dublin,
it's like people were coming up to us and it's like there's something happened
here.
Like something good really is happening and people want to stand up for what
they believe in and people want to fight for ideas that they care about and
people want to know more and not be like bludgeoned by the mainstream media.
That makes everyone dumb.
And not be called a racist.
Every time you say something that's slightly out of what mainstream can accept.
So I truly you you've,
I mean in the statement that I wrote that we released to our patrons,
you guys have quite literally made my dreams come true cause I'm doing what I'm
supposed to be doing and I,
you know,
I can't possibly be more appreciative of that.
Okay.
Hey Dave,
if the social justice warrior ideology has infected visa and mastercard and can
cut funding or services to whomever they please,
what legal recourse is there?
If there are no alternatives,
it's downright disturbing for it to have come to this.
Okay.
So as I said,
I'm not a lawyer,
but there are lawyers looking into some of this stuff.
Um,
I look,
they have their own agreements.
Like when you sign up for a credit card,
you sign some crazy agreement that nobody has a lawyer sitting there with.
So can these companies do what they want?
There's probably some there,
there is relationships with government agencies related to these companies.
So there's probably something to look at their,
I would say,
you know,
I'm hearing a lot of this,
especially on Twitter,
is that maybe the end game of all of this,
is that the only way to truly,
truly be a free creator now,
whatever that means,
whatever you create.
So in this case,
creating video and audio content is that you would be posting it on the
blockchain and also doing all your financial transactions on the blockchain
through Bitcoin and ethereum and light coin and everything else.
We're learning about it.
I have a zillion meetings tomorrow,
basically all day long tomorrow I'm going to be talking to crypto people and uh,
we're,
we're trying to figure out all that.
So by right now,
by closing Patrion I'm doing it to remove a middleman and do something that I
just think is the right thing to do.
We're pushing everybody to our website,
which doesn't solve the long longterm problems if,
if payment processors come for us and things like that.
But think how crazy this conversation is.
Like,
I'm,
I actually have to entertain the idea that payment processors could come from me
or anyone in my crew that you know of,
or come for you.
Like how crazy is that?
That's crazy.
Like we're not doing something evil and twisted here.
You know what I mean?
We're doing actually what you're supposed to do in a free society,
which is talk about things.
So switching everybody over doesn't solve the long,
long term problem.
But we're also,
as,
as I discussed with Jordan and you can watch the two videos that are on our
channel and on Jordan's channel,
we're working on some technological answers to this.
I think that there may be multi multipronged and sort of,
um,
multilayered versions of how we're going to put all of this out.
That may be some,
you know,
maybe we'll have everything on the traditional platforms and be putting up
everything,
uh,
on blockchain.
I'm there.
There's all sorts of ways we're,
we're trying to hit this and trust me,
the amount of people that have reached out to me that work at Google,
that work at Facebook,
that work at Yahoo,
uh,
that are tech startup people that are just regular folks in the middle of
nowhere.
It's like,
man,
people see an opportunity here and this is what freedom is all about,
right?
Someone is going to solve this.
I hope that I'm part of it,
right?
Like I hope the right thing comes across here where the right idea pops.
And it's like,
I'm part of the thing that solves this.
But if you are watching this right now,
if you can solve this freaking thing,
I'll join you on that platform.
Like,
let's figure this thing out together.
Okay.
Uh,
shout outs.
Alex,
Christine,
Bryan,
Jenna,
Christopher Page.
Michael James.
Neal.
Thank you guys.
Uh,
Neil in California.
He's getting a mug.
I'm going to do that right now.
Uh,
also drew and Glen are getting mugs.
Thank you guys.
I signed that one already.
Uh,
so okay,
there we go.
That's for Neil.
Where's this one?
Hold on.
I got,
I'm going to need more mugs.
Uh,
this is for Glenn.
There you go,
brother.
Thank you very much.
And one more,
right?
There you go.
You're getting the full day Reuben signature right there.
Um,
you know,
the other piece of this thing that's interesting is that,
everyone,
as I said,
everyone has different considerations.
Everyone does things differently.
So like I've had all these networks reaching out to me.
I don't want to name them right now,
but I there,
I know right now that there are a couple of different networks that are sort of
vying for me to join them.
Um,
the fact that I can make my own schedule that,
you know,
in December we basically pretending,
I think we did some of the best shows we've ever done in December.
Um,
most of them were pre-taped,
uh,
because I had done all sorts of travel with Jordan and we're doing more travel.
Like we're going to try to do some more stuff on the road.
Like I can make every decision that I think is right because of the freedom that
you guys are afforded to me.
So please don't think that that is lost on me because it's a,
it's awesome.
Uh,
have I talked to Sargon lately?
We've traded a couple emails and I think at some point we'll probably do a Skype
chat.
Um,
but we were sort of waiting for a little bit of the dust to settle here and
we'll,
we'll figure it out.
So yes,
we will,
we will do something with him.
Uh,
any information on professed goals to develop slash back in alternative platform
as well as a funding strategy for said product.
So I can't get into all of this right now.
Suffice to say that as I discussed with Jordan,
we are working on something.
He was building out something already that had some of the technological needs
that we would need for a Patriot unlike platform.
But there's all sorts of questions here.
Like,
I will be very honest with you guys,
is the idea that we should be building a platform that absolutely everyone
should be on,
that then becomes the home of all sorts of nefarious activities and,
and bad people.
Now that let's say it's within the realm of legality at least,
right?
Like,
okay,
I in principle I can get there,
but it's like,
do I want to be the leader of that platform?
And also when it gets to the moment where there has to be actual gatekeeping
where somebody does something that's really bananas,
it's like,
do I want to be the guy or do I want to be on the board of the group that has to
make the decision to boot people.
Like,
I don't know that,
that's exactly for me.
Um,
but again,
this is why blockchain might resolve some of these things.
So we'll,
we'll figure out some of that.
Um,
okay.
Couple of other uh,
shout outs,
Angelo,
Adam,
John and John and Ian.
Uh,
and a couple more mugs.
Peter,
drew and Christian.
I'm gonna need more bugs guys.
We're running low on mugs here.
We only put about 20 here to start.
Okay,
we got that one,
that one drew.
There you go.
My man and a,
I'm going to need another mug for Christian.
Okay.
Um,
here we go.
Uh,
just subscribed@daverubin.com.
Donate for 25 bucks a month.
Keep up the excellent work and the good fight.
You got it,
my friend.
Uh,
thank you for your hard work and putting your principles ahead of the money.
Um,
let me just address that quick because I,
I said this before,
you can just toss them down.
We're again,
um,
I said this before but um,
you know,
it's funny like,
so in the last couple of weeks are our patrion when we got on Patrion as I said
in,
uh,
in June of 2016,
patron was mostly like video gamers and some other interesting creators,
but not a lot of political people.
I think I was really one of the first,
if not the first from sort of the more political free speech space to get on
there.
And then once I got in there,
that sort of broke the dam and then a then a whole bunch of other people that
on.
Um,
we got to our original funding goal,
I think we originally asked for for 20 grand a month.
Uh,
eventually we moved that up to 30 grand a month.
That helped me literally buy this house,
build this studio.
We've,
we've been able to Redo the studio,
hire fulltime or as part timers,
all of those things.
Um,
because of you guys.
but what I was also realizing along the road was that why back?
You know what,
it's not even where,
what I was realizing basically was it's like having,
even if this was all going great,
why shouldn't we absolutely control line everything we're doing?
Why not take that last step to sort of true independence?
So,
all right,
let's see.
Um,
hey Dave,
as much as I hate the idea of government intervention,
is it time for the government to look into the d platforming issue or is that
too much of a slippery slope?
I think this is,
this might be the digital conversation to have in 2019,
as I said in the video with Jordan.
What kind of Internet do you want?
What kind of ability to communicate with other people?
Do you want,
we're going to really have to start thinking about it now.
Look from a libertarian perspective,
the idea that the government would come in and and and break up these companies
are forced them to do anything.
It,
it makes no sense from a libertarian perspective,
from a classical liberal perspective where you you're more okay with a light
touch of the government.
There could be some argument.
That makes sense.
Certainly from a more conservative argument because conservatives generally are
antigovernment but then our,
okay often with breaking up monopolies and things like that.
Okay.
There is now from a leftie perspective,
you have that you'd love to have the government involved in everything.
My feelings still right now,
even though I'm,
I'm right in the thick of this thing and it would be nice to have like,
you know,
some super power just come in and fix the whole damn thing is that I believe in
human ingenuity,
this problem will be solved.
There are people watching this.
I have no doubt there are people watching this that work at Google,
at work,
at all of these companies that want to solve these things.
I don't think everyone is a social justice warrior.
I don't think everyone wants to be this hysterical preening Morling monster that
is writing these terms of services that is deciding who can speak and who won't
speak in all of these things.
So I think that,
um,
I think that ingenuity is the way to do it.
There's always an argument to be made that the government should jump in and,
and do these things.
And I just think that the,
say if you give the government more power,
right,
you give the government more power,
the government does not give that power back.
So you have to be very,
very,
very careful.
That said,
look,
Prager u sued youtube over restricting their videos.
I love Dennis Prager.
We,
we,
I think just have a difference of opinion on that and that that's just how it
is.
All right,
I got some more mugs here.
So here we go.
Uh,
Steven and Kenny,
you're getting mugs.
Thank you guys very much.
I appreciate it.
That's for you,
Steven.
There you go,
brother and Kenny,
you're getting a mug.
There we go.
All right.
And you're getting a t shirt to a super chat.
Thanks Dave.
You got it.
Love the show or right.
Loved Dave and the IDW civil discourse among people with disparate ideas.
Why not?
Right?
Um,
I'm getting a lot of thank you's here.
There's a lot of thank you's,
but I want to get to some questions.
Um,
do you think you and Jordan will make a big enough dent to Patrion if they're
forced to change their ways because of,
uh,
the exit pegs it,
who would you return?
So this is interesting.
So look,
when we started this thing,
when this thing all hit at the beginning of,
uh,
December,
I think we were at that point,
we were making around 30 grand a month on Patrion.
Now of course,
that sounds like a lot of money,
right?
So 30 grand a month times 12 months,
we're looking at about 400.
No,
it's 300 and 360 grand a year,
something like that.
Right?
Um,
now that is obviously a lot of money.
Now when I tell you that I have employees and mortgages and insurance and all of
that other nonsense to make a business,
it's actually not that much money.
But I'm not sitting here complaining and this isn't cry me a river or anything
like that.
Now they're,
they get a small PR,
you know,
whatever it was.
They get let's say 5% of that or something like that and then some other fees on
top of that.
Jordan,
I don't know exactly what he was making per month,
but I know,
I know it was more than that.
Sam was probably in that category as well is is are all of us leaving and
whoever else is leaving,
I think Tim pool left.
I think some other people are planning on leaving our,
all of us leaving,
going to cause enough of a dent in their finances to have them turn around now,
if I'm not mistaken,
but someone can check on this.
Patriotic got about $450 million in VC funding in the last like year or two.
So let's say we cause them to lose a couple hundred grand or even a couple
million this year and people are really pissed at them.
Do they?
If they really have just bought into social justice and bought this,
this language control and all of this nonsense,
it's like a couple million bucks,
probably doesn't hurt them at all.
And if anything,
the people who are funding that might be thrilled that they're getting us off
these platforms.
So that's why I think it's completely legit for some people to say,
I'm going to stay here and fight.
And for some people to go,
it's like any other movement of any time,
right?
Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Junior didn't agree on every tactic and I'm in
no way comparing us to them.
But you know what I mean?
Like this is just how things,
how every battle is fought.
You have people that want to be more aggressive.
You have people that want to change things from the inside.
You have people that want to leave and come from the outside.
You have all of those different dynamics.
So we're all gonna try.
Look,
the fact that nobody's from from Patriot has reached out to me.
Nobody's reached out to Jordan.
I don't think anyone reached out to Sam.
I think in a weird way,
they're mostly probably happy that we're going.
Um,
but that doesn't mean it's a reason to stay.
I think you just,
you gotta do what you think is right.
I really do believe that.
Um,
what are your options after Patrion?
So as I said at the moment,
we want to shift as many of you guys to monthly donations that Dave
rubin.com/donate,
which by the way,
we're taking,
we're taking bitcoin there as well.
Um,
and then the hope is that we will solve the longterm problem,
which I think is probably a crypto answer.
But in the meantime,
there are many other ways of,
of doing subscription things.
We're going to try to figure out,
I mean,
I know one of the reasons that people loved Patrion was you had access to an ad
free version of the podcast.
So we're going to look into that.
We're going to look into a couple other things related to what,
what other things we can do for you guys.
Uh,
but at the moment it's about getting everybody,
just getting everybody to move over and then hopefully whatever we build on the
other side of that,
we'll be able to just flip the,
uh,
the info.
Uh,
so like,
so stripe is the payment processor we're using.
I think they're pretty decent and I think that they're,
they're going to offer us some protections and that hopefully what we build
after,
we'd be able to fold in the info that we have from you guys on stripe into the
next thing.
Um,
okay.
what will you do if Richard Spencer or David Duke signs up as a creator on your
platform?
Will you remove them or leave them on?
So this is,
uh,
so first off this is about the,
the thing that Jordan and I are working on.
We are working through all of these problems.
We are trying to decide if this should be an invite only platform or should it
be up to everybody.
As I said before,
there are major issues related to terms of service and all of these things.
So I don't want to comment on that specifically yet because it would be because
it's being worked out at the moment.
I think you know me,
I think you guys know me well enough that I will do everything I can to defend
everyone's right to be able to say what they want.
That does not mean there aren't going to be consequences and I also believe that
private companies can do what they want.
There is the question of platform verse publisher here,
which is really interesting as as a,
I said in the thing with Jordan the other day to loosely quote Eric Weinstein,
should conservatives be allowed to drive on public roads?
I mean at at some point,
should conservatives or conservatives or anyone that's outside of the
mainstream,
should they be allowed to have access to telephones and running water at their
house and all of these things because that's how important these modes of
communication these platforms are.
It's like this is your,
your way to connect with the world.
And if they're allowed to say you can't connect with the world,
well,
what else are they allowed to hold off on you on?
So it's a lot to think about it.
It's a lot to think about for sure.
All right,
let me jump back in.
We got a lot of shout outs here.
Uh,
Trevor,
Luca's,
Patrick,
Jeffrey conservative Mexican,
Henry,
John,
Chris,
Patricia,
another Jeffrey Roy Milko,
Arthur,
Rick,
Bert Alexander,
Vicki,
John,
Robert,
Luke,
Ross,
Dag fin,
Ernie Thomas,
Sean,
Rod,
and Nicholas.
Thank you guys for donating.
Why we're doing this.
Just a reminder in case you're just jumping in,
if you donate a Dave rubin.com/donate uh,
for 25 bucks monthly,
you're going to get the Ruben report shirt.
There's only about 200 of these left on earth.
They will never be made again because these were the,
the patrion shirts that we were given to our patrons.
So since we're leaving Patrion,
we're not going to print any more of these.
Uh,
and if you do $50 and above,
monthly on a,
on Dave Rubin dot conversation.
I it,
you're going to get the shirt and I'm going to sign a Mug for ya right here.
Okay.
Uh,
Timothy and Bonnie.
Thank you guys.
Um,
let's see.
Uh,
hi Dave.
I appreciate how thoughtful you've been with your decision to leave.
Patrion I agree with you that there's a solution to the d platforming issue on
Patrion and other sites.
Uh,
have you seen today's headline about Mckayla Peterson's brief suspension from
youtube?
Uh,
so I did see that.
So Jordan looped me and I know Mikayla obviously through Jordan.
Uh,
mckayla is Jordan's daughter.
Mikayla,
uh,
has a youtube channel and has been a big proponent of the carnival or diet,
which she,
I don't want to,
I don't want to misquote her at all here,
but she basically has been eating exclusively red meat and it has solved a lot
of,
of her health problems.
She had all sorts of health problems,
I think rheumatoid arthritis and a whole bunch of other things.
And through this diet,
it is seriously helped her.
She's been on Joe Rogan talking about it and a whole bunch of other things.
Her channel got a strike two days ago or it might've even been yesterday and she
was gonna have,
uh,
she was going to be temporarily banned or something for three months.
And of course youtube doesn't know why.
So then again,
or it doesn't tell you why.
And this is why all of this is so tough to deal with.
So even me right now,
so we're about to cross a million subscribers.
Um,
obviously the show's doing incredibly well.
Last month was,
I think our second or third best month in subscribers and views and all that
stuff.
I don't even have a personal contact at Youtube.
I have no,
if I have a problem with Youtube,
I have to fill out a generic form that they just send you some robotic answer
back.
I don't even have an email or a name of someone at youtube to contact.
Like that's the problem.
These companies have become so big that they,
they operate as sort of monolithic government.
And how,
again,
do I think that the government coming in and breaking up those companies will
somehow make them better?
Do I think the government that doesn't really understand technology,
if they could only break up technology companies would make any of this better?
Or if government regulators had to come in and audit youtube every now and again
and say,
you know,
you have to give Dave Rubin a personal contact number.
It's like,
I don't think any of that is the answer.
Um,
but I think by talking about these issues,
this is the funny thing.
You see this all the time when,
when you talk about that competition is the answer a then you'll see all these
people that'll be like,
oh,
see you free market people.
You don't want the government involved.
You're not allowed to complain.
And it's like,
no,
you're supposed to.
That's what you do in a free society.
You exercise your freedom to hopefully change things for the better,
which is exactly what we're doing here.
Okay.
Uh,
shout outs to Anthony,
Andrew,
Robert,
Chris and Laurie and conservative Mexican.
He just upgraded his mug status.
So I'm going to sign him a mug.
Thank you.
Conservative Mexican.
I,
you know,
I've got to tell you guys,
uh,
since uh,
since your name is conservative Mexican there I have met a lot of conservative
Mexicans in the last year that I did not really know where out there either at
my standup shows are at the Petersen shows.
Uh,
I've met a lot of not,
not only Mexicans,
I've met a lot of conservative Latino people.
Oh.
And actually speaking of stand up,
if you're in Ontario,
California,
which is southern Cali,
about half hour,
45 minutes from La,
I will be there on January 9th doing stand up,
uh,
and then uh,
live,
sit down with a,
with Bret Weinstein on January 9th.
And on January 30th,
I will be in Irvine County or I will be in Irvine,
which is in Orange County,
California.
Uh,
and there will be a surprise IDW guests with their,
with me there to the standup shows have just been great.
Like I'm getting back to my roots.
I promise you it's a standup show.
Like you have not seen.
It's sort of just a free for all.
I just sort of do a town hall.
I tell a couple of jokes,
but I'm just messing around with the crowd.
I give stuff away and it's completely politically incorrect and we're just
having a ball and I think you'll enjoy it.
Uh,
Robert,
you're getting a mug.
Here you go,
Robert.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
I felt that was a particularly good signature.
Here we go.
Let's see.
Um,
man,
this a zillion look at this question is just flying in here.
Um,
hey Dave,
will there be a video slash live stream of you shutting down the Patriot account
on the 15th so we've been discussing that.
I actually think it would be pretty cool if I have my laptop and I literally
just like walk up to the camera over there and press delete.
So we have a whole bunch of scheduling things going on.
January is completely bananas because I'm going to be in Australia for most of
February,
so we're taping a ton of stuff in January.
Um,
so that we have content obviously for February,
but I think we'll probably do that.
I want to make sure that there aren't technical reasons why we couldn't do that,
but yes,
I think we're gonna try to do that.
Um,
thanks for stepping up and being a leader in this freedom of speech and helping
us all have a voice.
You know,
I have nothing better to do.
That's really the truth.
Uh,
why have you in Jordan not performing Germany yet?
20,
19.
Yeah,
I think we're going to be in Germany either in May or June.
We're working out the rest of that European tour.
Um,
let's see.
holy cow is lot here.
Um,
how can we get in on the Beta test version of your and JPS Patrion on
alternative?
Uh,
I think there will be an answer to that probably within the next month or so.
I think they'll probably end up being a landing page and sort of an invite only
to the beta.
So hang tight on that.
I mean,
it's not just that,
not only do you have to build tech and solve these problems and address terms of
service,
it's like there's a whole bunch of other stuff you've got to figure out about
branding.
We got a business to build,
like there's a million,
a million million things.
So I think our one sort of,
um,
slight mistake was that in the first video that I did with Jordan,
Jordan said that he was going to try or thought it was possible that maybe we
could get it out by December 25th or January 1st.
That was probably a little bit,
uh,
over ambitious just because we really wanted to solve a problem.
So it was like,
holy cow,
can we do this quick and just,
just get some bare bones thing up.
And then when we really thought about it,
it's like you really do have to be methodical and you want to make sure that,
that,
that all of those pressure points that you can be taken down on either
technologically or because of the mob or everything else or because the media is
going to come after you.
You want to make sure that you're covering all your bases here.
So we are covering our bases.
I promise you that.
Ben,
are you ready for a mug?
I'm sending you a Mug.
Thank you,
Ben.
Alright,
there you go.
I'm going to need more mugs guys.
And you're getting a t shirt to everyone that gets a Mug,
gets a tee shirt.
Dave rubin.com/donate a is where you're going to do that.
A superchat happy new year.
Thank you very much.
Uh,
I absolutely love your show.
How do I get my wife to watch your show with?
And you put that part in caps.
I like that.
Um,
that's funny.
You know,
I get a lot of messages from people that are having problems.
I get messages from people that are getting divorced over politics because it's
you usually not always the case is that the woman is a lefty SJW the whole thing
and that the man has been trying to um,
you know,
show her some of these videos or just break her out of that mindset.
It's not always that way with the female on one side of the male and the other.
Um,
but I've literally gotten messages of people that are getting divorced over
politics,
which is sad.
And it's also like that's why not everything should be political.
And it's why if you look at my Twitter,
I don't tweet about the political machinations everyday.
I don't think I've tweeted once about the government shutdown.
It's like politics is starting to become incredibly boring to me.
What is interesting to me is what is happening culturally and what is happening
with the way we relate with the way we relate to government with the way we
relate to these platforms and the way we relate to conversation and our ability
to communicate with each other.
That is really interesting to me.
The little machinations of politics.
It's like,
man,
you've got,
you've got half the country that,
that says Trump is Hitler,
which is so absolutely bananas ridiculous.
And at the same time,
their answer is they always want more government.
And it's like,
no,
you should always want to strip the power away so that when it's somebody you
don't like,
they don't have a lot of power.
And then the trade off is when it's somebody you do,
like maybe they can't get everything done that you want in your Utopian society.
Um,
okay.
Uh,
shout outs.
No,
El Cerrito,
Mike,
he,
Wayne Christian,
Linda,
Mike,
Chris,
Peter,
Nicholas and Paul.
Thank you guys very much.
I really do appreciate it.
Um,
okay.
A lot of people are saying that I should delete the,
uh,
the Patriot account online.
So maybe I'll do it.
I'll just bust out the laptop and just do it in front of you guys.
That would actually be pretty fun.
Um,
there's a lot of super chats coming in.
I'm,
I'm trying to try and read them here.
Um,
let's see.
Uh,
freedom of speech is worth a bit of inconvenience.
Close my patron on account after January 1st auto payments and also paypal since
they're complicit,
we'll look,
this is,
this is the payment processor thing and believe me,
I did not know what a tremendous amount about payment processing,
uh,
until the last couple of weeks.
And there are certain payment processors that are a little more willing to stand
up to the mob.
Some of them aren't.
If,
if an entire company has been sort of infected by by the progressive dogma,
then they're going to drop anybody at the first sign of trouble.
Um,
so we're talking to all sorts of people.
Uh,
as I said,
yes,
tomorrow I have it just an insane day basically from 8:00 AM to the end of the
day just taking calls and taking video chats with all sorts of people that think
they have solutions.
And so now it's like I've got like an as if I wasn't busy enough between the
tour and I'm writing the book and I'm doing the show and doing standup.
It's like,
now I have this alternate job as like a,
as like a tech guy,
which uh,
is quite bizarre.
But life is strange.
Um,
let's see.
I'm a strong conservative that has changed some of my beliefs because of your
show.
While I appreciate that,
you know,
it's,
it's cool.
You know,
it's funny,
there was this,
um,
this data and society ridiculous report that was funded by some Soros group,
doesn't matter,
um,
that did all this,
this whole thing about how youtube is converting people into the alt right.
And they somehow connected.
They just use lines to connect people that have talked to each other.
So I'm connected to Joe Rogan and this guy is connected to Tim pool.
This guy's connected to Sam Harris and this guy is connected to this.
And it's like,
there was no methodology behind that.
Of course,
as reclined at vox tweets out how important of a study it is and all this
endless bullshit and buzzfeed does pieces on and the rest of it.
And,
um,
the whole idea being that we're,
that you're watching this show that you person watching this right now or
watching this show,
you're watching,
the conversations that I have listening to the things that I talk about are my
guest talk about.
And somehow you're being radicalized to the alt right that you're hearing about
the individual,
and that we should treat people as individuals and treat everybody equally and
should not be racist,
and we should not be prejudice and all of these things.
And that somehow that's turning you ultra bright.
Um,
of course it's dribble.
There was actually,
Tim pooled did a video on this.
There was a guy who recently did a true analysis of a lot of these channels.
And it turns out in many cases,
when people watch these shows,
you have people that are hard,
more hardcore,
right?
Let's say,
that are actually shifting a little bit more liberal.
Um,
it's all just dribbled.
But I will tell you this,
that the focus,
you know,
it's why,
why is there so much focus,
buzzfeed and vox and New York Times and the rest of these things?
Why are they always focusing on like this little crew of youtubers?
Why do they want to take down puny pie so badly?
Well,
it's like people are actually watching this.
People are watching this and those companies,
they're,
they're just funded to the tilts,
but they're,
they're dying,
they're dinosaurs that should die and hopefully something better will be,
will come after them.
So there you go.
All right,
shout outs to Thomas,
Robert,
Robert and Irma and Dana,
you're getting them on sister.
I'm going to sign it right here.
Here you go.
There you go.
You know what?
I will also offer up,
I don't know if I was going to get in trouble for doing this,
but you know when we,
uh,
when we flipped our set,
when we,
this past September,
we have most of our old set,
we've got the chairs from our old set.
I need to hang onto the red chair cause I still use it.
Um,
when I do the three way conversations,
but we've got to have the guests chairs that my guests were always sitting and
you may remember those awkward chairs and we've got the old table,
the old coffee table.
So I would say make us an offer that we can't refuse and maybe we can get you
one of those if you want one of those.
Um,
that would be a logistical nightmare probably in the shipping and
ridiculousness.
But let's see.
Okay.
Um,
th
the left doesn't care now that they control the media and the Internet platform,
company companies,
if you want to know how they react when they are on the other side of the coin,
see the 1960s freedom of speech is a right,
regardless of which side you are on.
And Dave and Jordan are right.
What is going on is very ominous and Orwellian.
Well,
we'll look,
I agree.
Both sides can,
can be pretty bad when it comes to speech.
Remember it was the right that used to be all about video game violence,
right?
That video games are causing violence and they should have warnings and
shouldn't be sold and they were going to boycott the stores and all of these
things.
So this is not necessarily our left right issue.
And again,
we talk about this all the time,
but this is also one of those things where it's like the left right paradigm is
just becoming increasingly meaningless because you're either basically
libertarian in that you're sort of,
that you're for personal freedom,
which can be a little bit messy because that means someone else is going to have
personal freedom to,
and they might be doing something you don't like or you want central planning,
you want state control over things.
I think you guys know where I fall out on that.
Um,
what I would say is that we want to build something that will be as open as
possible,
that will also be protected from,
I mean,
I've said this board,
it will be protected from the mob.
It will be technologically sensible and it will offer some answers to some of
these things.
There's a little bit more that I could tell you that we've accomplished already,
but I just can't quite get into all of that.
And I wish I could.
Okay.
Uh,
conservative Mexican,
he's back.
Can I pick up my mug and shirt when I see you at a CSUF?
Uh,
I met you at the Improv in Irvine.
Um,
yeah.
You know what,
we'll make that happen guys.
Can you make a note of that conservative Mexican?
We're gonna,
we're gonna bring him the shirt when I do that show on January 29th,
which,
uh,
that reminds me,
January 9th,
I'm at Ontario Improv down here in southern Cali.
Bret Weinstein's going to joining me for that.
When I do about an hour,
then will join me for about an hour live.
Sit down.
January 30th,
I'm at Irvine,
California with an undisclosed member of the intellectual dark web and I'm at
CSUF cal state,
uh,
on January 29th,
which is a college Gig,
but they are selling tickets to the public on that too.
Okay.
What the hell are we doing here?
A little radio reset for you.
We are leaving patrion on January 15th.
That's it.
They don't want to respect free speech.
You got to stand up sometimes in life.
It's weird.
Uh,
I'm watching my monthly revenue drop like hell and uh,
and I'm getting emails from people that are inspiring me.
Um,
so it's a little bizarre.
Uh,
if you go to Dave rubin.com/donate,
uh,
we are gonna send you a Mug and a tee shirt.
If you jump in for a $50 and above,
and I'll sign the mug right here for you.
If you do that on a monthly level,
25 bucks,
you're getting the limited,
never going to be printed again because they were just for Patriot tee shirts.
Whew,
that's a lot of talking.
Okay.
And five bucks in above.
And I'm just going to give you a shoutout right here.
So I'm going to give a shout out to Jacob,
to William and to Garret and Aaron,
Lawrence and Ricardo.
You guys are getting mugs and that's a running out of mugs again.
All right,
here we go.
There we go.
Mama Mia,
keep the questions coming guys.
I'm seeing all these and um,
I promise you I'm going to get to as many as possible.
Okay.
Um,
okay.
This is real,
right?
It's real and it's raw.
That's what I can tell you.
You guys,
um,
let's see.
Uh,
I seriously hope I can continue to listen to you and many others that I do.
I think it was positive that you're taking a preemptive step versus waiting for
the ax to fall,
assuming that it does.
Well,
that's interesting.
So what I can tell you is this,
so if you think about sort of the whole IDW crew,
whatever that actually means to you,
but let's say this group of 20 or 30 or so people,
I can tell you that the,
the Sargon thing by Sargon getting booted,
everyone realized,
even though some of the people had never met him,
some of the people didn't know who he was.
There were several people who didn't even know anything about him.
Everybody was like this,
this one is just,
you know,
in life you don't get the perfect opportunity the second you want it.
You know what I mean?
You're either going to swing early sometimes and sometimes you're going to swing
too late,
but sometimes you just got to swing.
And I think what I realized,
at least for this one was it was like,
not only because as I said to you earlier when I started waking up to some of
these ideas,
Sargon was someone that was doing this on youtube.
And although I don't know everything about him and,
and truth be told,
I don't think I've watched a video of his in a year.
I've just been extremely busy.
Um,
I know that he's basically a decent human and I know that he's not all to write.
And I know that he's been fighting the forces of racism and the rest of it.
And it's like we could just sit quietly,
right?
Like we could like the chances,
I suppose,
well,
I think some of you would disagree with me on this,
but I think the chances that they're going to come from me,
let's say in the next couple of weeks or a couple of months,
are pretty slim,
right?
Like basically,
cause that would be such a massive vine that it would be bananas,
but we just saw a massive move the line.
So it's like we just don't know when it's gonna happen and you don't get that
perfect moment.
So maybe Sargon isn't the perfect case here that everyone's going to jump aboard
and defend Jordan.
And I felt it was the right one and,
and here we are.
Um,
okay.
Let's see.
Um,
would you have tried to launch this new platform if paypal,
stripe,
mastercard,
et Cetera,
had not caught off patriots competitions,
subscribed star?
That was big.
So,
you know,
it was interesting when,
when this whole thing happened,
subscribed star sort of came out of nowhere and everybody was like,
well,
you gotta jump on subscribed.
Sorry.
It's the Patriana alternative.
And what I kept saying,
everybody,
and this was before I was even discussing with Jordan about doing a,
uh,
an alternative platform,
alternative platform,
was that just jumping to another site?
Even if their intentions are good,
it's just a,
it's just a little stop gap.
Like this is a frog in a pot that is slowly boiling in the frog,
doesn't know when it's going to be dead.
That's sort of where we're at at the moment.
So just jumping,
this has nothing to do with the people that subscribe star,
any of that,
but it was just going to jump to sort of an earlier version of patrion which
then lets say in a year from now if it had gone successfully,
would've had all of the problems of a patriot.
So that's why I didn't want to do subscribe star.
I suppose right now if substrate subscribe star had not had,
I guess it was stripe and paypal and mastercard and whoever else.
If they had not cut them off then I think there would be a little more
legitimacy behind what subscribed started doing.
But that's why I'm saying this is a massive technological problem that perhaps
can only be solved by blockchain and in the meantime if we can just remove as
many middlemen as possible for all that you guys see.
That's another interesting thing is that there's a real generational shift here.
We know that most of the people that watch these videos on youtube are younger,
younger people are more willing to spend their hard earned dollars supporting
people that care about the things that they care about.
So like back in the day,
I'm not that old,
I'm 42 for most of my life.
You had bundled cable.
So let's say you only wanted to watch ABC,
NBC,
Espn,
and TNT.
Well you,
that wasn't a package.
You couldn't just pay a couple bucks for each of those and get that.
They forced you to buy a bundle basically.
So you'd end up with lifetime and we channel and comedy central and a zillion
other things that maybe you'd never wanted.
And that's the only way you did it.
As that model crumbles,
and it's so interesting because we're watching the television model crumble.
The cable model crumble as we're watching mainstream media crumble as we're
watching the political establishment crumble or watching all this happen at
once.
But as that crumbles,
people are going,
oh,
I don't have to spend say 120 bucks on cable a month anymore.
I could say spend,
say 40 bucks a month.
And I could divvy that up amongst eight creators that I like,
give him five bucks each.
And if enough people do that,
all of these people that care about the things that I care about,
we'll be able to go on and live and hopefully do more and,
and all of those things.
So there's also an interesting age thing happening here and,
and it's very cool to be part of truly a,
okay,
let's jump back to shout outs.
Andy Drag,
uh,
Andy drew,
Zachary,
Camille,
Michael.
Thank you guys.
And we got some more mugs.
Todd and Peter with a d.
He's on there.
And Brandon,
thank you guys.
So you guys are getting mugs that I'm signing right now signing the mugs right
now.
You guys are getting a tee shirts that will get out to you as soon as possible.
And the last one,
there was four a for Brendan.
Thanks man.
Appreciate it.
Um,
it's cool,
right?
Like it's actually the other thing that,
it was so interesting just on a personal note,
you know,
this year,
this past year,
2018 was definitely without question.
It was the most rewarding of my life personally,
professionally on,
on every front.
Uh,
the work that I'm doing I think is important.
And good.
It's,
it's,
I,
it's brought a certain level of happiness and success to my life,
which is great.
Uh,
going on this tour with Jordan where we did about a hundred stops in all sorts
of different countries and went all over the United States.
And as I said,
we're going to extend it now into,
into Australia for February and then we're doing all these European stops and
meeting all of you guys.
Like that's the thing,
it's like I know that online,
it seems like an endless hate fest and,
and it often is in its,
we're owning the Lib tards and the cuckservatives and all of this nonsense.
But it's like there are good people everywhere.
And I saw them and I see them every single night.
One of the things that we do at the,
uh,
at the Jordan shows,
he does a meet and greet after a,
and I do a meet and greet now for Jordan's meet and greet.
Obviously it's,
it's Jordan's show.
So he gets let's say 300 people that go to his meet and greet and you get a
picture with him and he does a little talk minor are usually somewhere between
like say 20 and 50 people.
And it's really cool because we go into a private room or sometimes there's like
a bar area at the theater.
Um,
and we get to chat.
Like I sit around,
we try to get the,
the,
the chairs in a circle and we sit around and I get to hear from people about
their concerns or what's what they're excited about or whatever it is.
And they asked me questions.
Sometimes I ask them questions.
I know that people meet after we've been,
we've been meeting people that are starting the ITW groups,
uh,
people are hanging out after sometimes at some of the shows.
There are people that hand out fliers in there.
Like if you want to talk about some of these ideas afterwards,
um,
meet us at the bar down the block.
And I've,
I've gone to one or two of them actually at the,
uh,
we did two shows in Stockholm,
which were two of my favorite shows that I loved,
loved,
loved the Nordic countries,
but Stockholm particularly.
And we did my meet and greet and there were a ton about like 60 people there.
We were jammed in this little room and then I was like,
you know what,
why don't we just wrap this thing up early and go to a bar?
And then like 60 of us went to a bar.
Uh,
Aaron Flamm was there,
who's a comedian from Sweden who's been on the show in a couple of other
influential people there.
Shout outs to Rs.
Derek,
Laura and Joseph.
Thank you guys very much.
And a mug and a t shirt for Dylan.
Thank you brother.
I already signed that one guys.
I'm going to need more mugs.
Um,
yeah,
so,
uh,
lots of,
lots of cool stuff happening guys.
There you go.
That is the Dave Rubin Mug.
I'm renting out a room at the table here.
Um,
okay.
if mastercard or other payment companies can prevent me from supporting the
artists or makers who are engaging in illegal activities that I prefer,
there's no limit to what they control.
It's definitely a big issue and I think that the left doesn't understand how
giving this type of power to a corporation can swing back around on them.
Have you reached out to mastercard so that that Harkens back to an earlier
question.
One of the,
one of the reasons that this is so crazy is that,
so think about it.
You've got half whatever it is.
There's certain set of people that think Trump is the antichrist.
He's Hitler or any of this nonsense,
but generally speaking,
people on the right,
generally speaking,
right,
if you're a,
generally speaking,
a conservative or libertarian doesn't want to use state power to accomplish
their goals.
They want the market and individual people to solve things.
Now on the left,
they believe that state power is the answer to most things.
Bernie believes that state power is the answer to most things.
Elizabeth Warren believes this.
Kamala Harris believes this is what 99% of progressives believe.
Now,
obviously I don't agree with that,
but let's give them a benefit it out that sometimes the government can do some
good things.
Okay,
sure.
The government has done some good things by the way.
A one,
I mean,
if you want to watch really interesting interview,
I talked about this with Peter Teal and then he said at some point it just
stopped working.
He said,
he said something to the effect of,
I'd have no reason to be a libertarian if any of it worked.
Um,
but what the real scary part of what's happening right now is it's like,
okay,
so let's say we give the power,
let's say the Conservatives and Libertarians are like,
you know,
what does d platforming thing is so dangerous and,
and it's because it's coming after us.
We're gonna,
we're gonna.
Um,
we're going to shave away on our ideals.
And you know what?
The government can get involved this one time because Google controls so much
information.
The government can do it this one time.
Well,
what happens then when,
let's say Trump is out and now you've got a progressive in the White House who
believes the government control everything.
Now you've just given the control of the platforms to people who are even more
politically,
uh,
against you and have more power.
So this is why everyone has to be very careful and why,
once again,
I would still say this is about ingenuity of the American people.
Okay,
let's see a hundred bucks on super chat.
Keep up the good work.
Great work.
Thank you.
I will do that.
Uh,
thank you penny.
Thank you Andrew.
Thank you Leslie.
Thank you Donald.
And a Mug for Keanae.
You've got it.
Here we go.
Um,
man,
I wish we could move the camera a little because I am surrounded by mugs right
now.
This is pretty crazy.
Um,
okay.
Hey Dave,
what about Maxine Bernina?
Is there an interview coming soon and love the show.
Keep up the great work.
Yeah,
we've got to,
Maxine Bernay is a libertarian up in Canada,
which you know that the government has gone completely out of control if
Libertarians are gaining steam and Canada.
We've got him be a Skype.
Uh,
I believe it's next week,
maybe a week or two.
Uh,
but we are doing that and I'm looking forward to doing that one.
Let's,
I love you so much for the stance.
You're making.
No tolerance for censorship.
I love you too.
Thank you for taking a stand against censorship and providing exceptional
content.
You got it.
Hey Dave,
huge fan here.
What things did Patrion do well that you guys want to nail down in this new
platform?
Also,
can you tell us everything knew about it?
We didn't previously know.
Have a great day.
So I can't give you all the specifics on what we're trying to do and,
and a lot of it's still is a morphous and believe me,
we're bringing in a lot of the voices that you'd think we'd bring in and we're
bringing in some voices that maybe you wouldn't think we'd bring in.
What are,
what did Patrion and knew?
Well look,
they were the first one that solved a massive problem.
There was a problem that creators could not figure out a way to make a living
despite making good content on youtube.
The,
the CPMS,
meaning the cost per thousand views that the eds,
the advertisers were paying out,
he's extremely low on youtube.
It's something like two bucks per thousand views.
Then there was the heat,
the whole demonetization issue,
which by the way,
he's still real.
So,
uh,
although generally speaking,
it's gotten better for our channel.
Um,
you know,
right before Christmas,
who,
who do I have on?
Right before Christmas,
while I did a show with a rabbi,
David Wolpe from Temple Sinai here in Los Angeles,
and he was sitting in that chair and I,
and this chair was a bishop Barron from the archdiocese here in la.
Uh,
that was monetized.
What was the show that I had on earlier in the week?
Just two days before?
Uh,
it was a mom to Ed.
They did not,
they demonetize that one by not only the algorithm do you monetize it,
but then manual review.
So I can talk to a rabbi and a priest monetized.
I could talk to Ema,
not Monica.
It's like,
it's just all bananas and subjective.
Um,
so patrion what do they do?
Well,
they were the first one that said,
let's find another way that creators can come together in one spot and people
who are interested in creators would have some discovery.
So maybe you'd go on there.
Let's say you were,
you were a a Jordan Peterson fan.
You might go on there,
you might donate five bucks a month to Jordan and then,
uh,
you might look around and I think they had like a sort of related channels kind
of thinking.
You might go,
you know what,
I've got 20 extra bucks a month or I'm going to drink one less beer a month and
I'm going to take that six bucks that I spend on a beer month and I'm going to
give three creators two bucks,
or whatever it is.
So they really did do that.
Well,
there were other things that I loved about,
you know,
they did some of the backend stuff.
So I was doing voice and video chats with groups,
small groups,
and one on one people over the last couple of months we eliminated the one on
ones cause I just simply didn't have any time anymore.
Um,
but I've loved,
by the way,
doing the group chats,
you know,
I do,
I still do a series of these,
um,
which we are phasing out,
but I've met so many people and it's really cool.
So I spend about a while,
at one point I was going from 8:00 AM to 8:00 PM.
I was a whole day of talking to people,
um,
where I would bounce around.
I talked to somebody in Japan and then somebody in Australia and then you know,
somebody in Mexico and Brazil and Iceland and Sweden and blah,
blah,
blah.
It was like,
man,
the amount of perspective that I would get and just talking to interesting
people who were thinking about the same things all over the world.
It's pretty freaking awesome.
So patron,
this is not,
I don't,
I don't hate Jack Conti.
I don't hate this Jacqueline heart.
The head of a trust and safety.
It's like I think they're not particularly good at their jobs.
I think that they're not standing up for the right principles.
Um,
but if either one of them want to come and,
and talk to me again,
I guess I'd be happy to do it.
Although everything Conti said to me last time,
it turned out,
turned out either to be intentionally lying,
but I don't like to attack people's motives.
So he was either mistaken,
didn't realize the problems that were coming down the pike or just didn't know
what he was talking about.
I don't,
I don't know which one of those is,
is the truth.
Uh,
Yo Dave,
check out youtube or law.
He's a tech lawyer looking to take action.
Seems like he has a lot of support from the legal and so I know people have sent
me the videos.
I haven't seen them yet,
but I will take a look at that.
Um,
the IDW has made my husband and I closer.
We need more IDW women to speak up.
I know we exist.
Absolutely.
You do.
Look there.
There are,
there are,
there are plenty of women from ion and Christina Hoff summers and I would say
Caitlin Flanagan and,
and Claire Lehman.
And you know,
there,
there are plenty of others.
But yeah,
I think we could,
this is the irony of the whole thing,
right?
It's like we don't care about identity politics,
but you want to feel that there are people from all sorts of walks of life that
are represented with good ideas,
not because of the color of their skin or their sexuality or gender or any of
that.
Um,
but yeah,
the,
we'll look,
I promise you guys,
as long as I can keep doing this show and we can keep making this thing work,
I will,
uh,
I will keep finding people regardless of any of those immutable characteristics.
And if it happens to be more women than so be it.
Let's see.
Um,
you and Jordan's bromance is awesome.
Please come with Jordan to the UK soon and somewhere a student can afford
tickets.
Have a great day,
Dave.
We did about six or seven stops in the UK,
which was actually totally fun and cool and it was nice to bounce around the
country.
One of the most fun things that I did in the UK was during one of our days in
London,
I had a couple of hours off and I spent the day at Mckayla school.
Jordan's daughter happens to be named Mckayla,
but that is not connected to this.
Uh,
you may remember my former guests,
Catherine verbal Singh who was on at the end of August and she,
she runs a school called Mckayla.
She used to be a big lefty.
She realized how leftism was teaching just no personal responsibility and always
kicking the can down the road and throwing money at things.
And she has this school where they take inner city kids from every walk of life
and they,
they teach them how to be responsible,
smart,
um,
self aware adults.
I mean,
I,
so I sat up,
I didn't know what I was doing.
I just showed up there.
She's like,
you're going to have lunch with these kids.
I sat at a table with a,
with a bunch of kids,
like eight kids,
and we added this incredible conversation.
They,
I,
they took me to all these classrooms.
I gave a talk at the end of the day to the,
to the teachers there,
but they,
they,
you know,
they're not allowed to talk.
Uh,
they're allowed to talk about a specific topic during lunch.
They can't talk in the hallways.
They have to walk on certain sides of the thing.
Like it sounds sort of authoritarian in a way,
but they're teaching these kids incredible personal responsibility.
It's,
it's pretty awesome.
All right,
let me jump back in here.
Shout outs to Kyle,
Matt and Scott and uh,
just a reminder,
Dave rubin.com/donate if you do it while I'm doing this right now,
25 bucks a month and you're going to get a Reuben report tee shirt,
which will never be printed again because it was the patriots shirt.
And you will also get a signed autographed Ruben Report Mug,
which I'm going to sign for you right here.
I am surrounded by mugs right now.
All right,
here we go.
I'm excited to see Maxime on the show.
Is there any possibility of getting some more focused on Canadian politics?
Uh,
well there's obviously something going on in Canada.
yeah.
Well we're going to have,
um,
Stephen Harper,
a former prime minister,
Stephen Harper will be on the show,
uh,
I think in January if I'm not mistaken.
And there,
there really is something going on in Canada related to free speech and all
this,
which is why Jordan obviously is from Canada and Lindsay Shepherd and Ezra
Levant and plenty of other people that are fighting this fight are in Canada.
Um,
let's see.
Dave,
will your platform allow creators of legal erotic content writing,
drawing,
photography?
Uh,
yeah.
I'm talking about what a lot of people call a porn.
Uh,
again,
this is,
this is all about trying to figure out what kind of platform we want to build.
Do we want absolutely everybody on there?
Should it be invite only?
Do you need to be recommended by a couple of people?
I know.
Anything I say right now,
he's going to make a certain amount of people mad no matter what.
We are talking all of this stuff out,
so my look,
my general feeling,
so I can only speak for myself for just a second.
I can always only speak for myself,
but particularly at this moment,
my general feeling is I want as little gatekeeping as possible.
If you are doing something that is legal,
it is legal in the country that you live in,
then I would,
I personally would err on the side of that being completely fine on the
platform.
Now that the problem with that at least optically is if you try to do that,
then a certain amount of of people who are doing all sorts of racist,
whatever,
like truly racist and evil stuff,
they're going to all flock to that platform and maybe that's going to overrun
all of the,
the good decent stuff that's there.
That's just an issue to deal with because well even if even if you're okay with
that,
right?
Well then you've got then the mob that comes in after and it's like see what
this platform is.
See what this platform is.
It's an outright haven for evil,
racist,
and pornographers and the rest of it.
And then whether you want it to be a problem or not,
or whether you believe in all of these people's right to free speech or not,
if they then come after your payment processor is the mastercards and paypal's
well not,
you've still got a massive headache.
So that's why we have to figure this thing out in,
in a whole bunch of steps.
Okay.
Um,
wow.
There's a lot here.
Um,
thank you for all your hard work,
Dave.
I may just be a dumb mechanic,
but I find all your content,
very important.
Best of luck to you in your adventures.
You're not a dumb mechanic and thank you for that.
Um,
you can view the parade,
oh,
principal through two lenses.
One that says 80% of people are worthless.
The other perspective says that small businesses are more productive.
Globalism is dead.
It's like I snuck that in there.
Well,
you know,
it's funny about small businesses because it really is one of the things that
I'm most proud of.
We ever seriously great small business here.
We have built something that I'm super proud of that we,
as I said before,
we payable of our health insurance for our employees.
We give nice bonuses,
we treat everybody well.
I try to let people take more vacations than,
than you would at a normal job.
And we,
and we work with people.
However,
however we can to make a good business.
We have no debt.
We own everything that we're doing here.
I mean,
I'm dead in the,
in the,
in the home,
but I mean we have,
you know,
we own all of our equipment.
We've run a very responsible business that I'm super excited about.
Um,
but I remember once,
um,
Jonathan Chait who's a lefty writer from either New York magazine or The New
Yorker,
I'm blanking.
I think it's New York magazine,
but somebody could let me know about a year or two ago.
I saw him tweet something about how like small business,
the phrase small business is just a,
uh,
it's just like a made up phrase by,
by big government or by Republicans,
something like that.
And I wrote back and I was like,
you know,
I gotta tell you I run a small business and I'm super proud of it.
Um,
and we have a couple of,
we have several employees and you know,
whatever.
And then he retweeted me and he wrote back several employees mocking the fact
that I only have several employees and I thought this is,
this is exactly why people don't like elite liberals and and sort of the the,
the coast liberalism and this big government nonsense.
It's like,
wait a minute.
If I was a big company,
you'd say I'm bad because I'm an evil corporation now I'm a small business and
you mock me for only having several employees.
I've created something.
I've created content that's valuable.
I've created jobs for people,
which I'm super proud about.
I don't know that he's ever created anything.
I don't want to make this about him specifically,
but it's like what is the right number?
If you hate corporations and you hate small business,
what's the right amount of people that I should have hired that then I would be
in that sweet spot if I had 16 employees.
Are we good?
Then like what,
what are we really talking about here and there?
And often there's really no answer because they have some sort of
mmm,
okay.
I think if I just have an idea of what's right instead of having anything to do
with what reality,
what is realistically practical and Jonathan Shade is from New York magazine.
Uh,
Keith,
Andrew,
Angela and Camille.
Thank you guys very much.
Appreciate it.
And uh,
it's Dave ruben.com/donate guys,
I'm signing mugs and I'm giving away tee shirts.
Here we go.
Might I suggest having bishop Barron and Jordan Peterson shared discussion on
your show?
That would be quite an event.
I think that would be,
it would be really a really,
really interesting and I know that the bishop is a big fan of,
of Jordan,
so I will see if I can make that happen.
Uh,
have you looked at decentralized solutions like Alexandria Slash Open Index
Protocol?
I think the problem needs to be solved at the protocol level.
So payment is decentralized,
separate from content delivery.
Um,
I don't want to answer that one specifically.
Suffice to say,
as I said earlier,
I have many phone calls tomorrow,
so think,
think about it that way.
Um,
yeah.
Hey Dave.
I realized a while ago that I'm bisexual and I'm having trouble accepting it as
part of my identity.
Do you have any advice based on your own coming out experience?
Well that's,
it's nice to get away from the topic for just a second.
Um,
the only,
the only advice I can give on,
on anything I think related to sexuality or anything like that is you just have
to be yourself.
Like you can try not to be yourself.
You can,
I did it for many,
many years.
I'm going to be writing about this in my book.
I came out of the closet way too late.
Um,
I think I did damage to myself.
I think emotionally,
psychologically damaged my relationships,
family,
all sorts of things that you don't just put aside one day and her magically
fixed.
I think then you have a lifetime of sort of repairing those things.
Um,
so,
you know,
it's funny,
I don't regret anything I did because I got to a place in life that's good.
But we all live with some of the scars of our former selves,
you know.
Um,
but I would say if you are what you Popeye,
I am what I am and that's all that I am.
I mean,
if you are something,
whether you're gay or bisexual,
whatever you are,
if you are like,
you gotta be it,
whatever that means to you.
And uh,
if you think that people aren't going to accept you for it,
then maybe you should find some other people to be around.
Um,
and that's not a fun thing to say or cool either.
but be who you are.
It's all you can do.
I,
you know,
like it's hard to leave one lie.
This is what I would say.
It's hard to live one life on this earth,
right?
Like live in one life is hard.
What does Jordan talk about all that life is suffering,
man.
You got to figure out some way to pilfer some,
some pleasure out of it.
Being on an adventure that,
that gives that is rewarding to you and meaningful and all of those things.
I think I've been able to do that.
But like imagine trying to live two lives and this is what people who are
closeted half to do and,
and people,
people are closeted for all sorts of reasons.
I would say conservatives now are more closeted than gay people in a lot of ways
because everywhere I go,
I meet people that are just basic decent conservatives who might be prolife are
pro gun,
who are afraid to tell anybody what their political views are.
Now you know what it's like to be in the closet.
The closet isn't just,
the closet is just,
there's just room for one there and it's just you and your thoughts.
And that is a lonely place.
But it's hard to live life as one person.
Now.
Imagine trying to live life as to people all the time.
It's not fun and,
and uh,
yeah,
it's not good.
It's not good.
I hope that,
I hope that had some value.
Um,
shout outs to Benjamin,
Beverly and Patricia and mugs to fill up and to Thor.
Speaking of Thor,
you know,
I've been on planes like I don't know how many freaking plane rides I've taken,
um,
in the last year.
Um,
but I've watched,
um,
Avengers infinity war like 10 times and I like it better every time.
Like it really is just spectacular.
I can't wait until the next one.
So this is for you.
Four and a.
All right,
where are we?
Where are we?
Um,
uh,
we'll be sure to send you monthly via paypal until your new platform comes out.
Keep fighting the good fight.
Thank you very much.
Happy new year,
Dave and everyone,
how do we solve the whole problem when it starts with the payment processors?
It's like we need our own payment processor.
Yeah.
Again,
so we've hit this a couple of times,
but maybe there will be a payment processor or maybe there is one out there
where maybe I have a phone call with one of them tomorrow,
uh,
with,
with the ability to stand up to the mob.
Or maybe they'd have some outside the box thinking,
uh,
solutions to some of these things.
So we shall see.
Um,
let's see.
thanks Dave.
For so many hours of great content leading me to Peterson Rogan will the
Weinstein brothers and so many other interesting people.
Thank you for giving us hope for the next generation of freedom to think it's
scary raising my children in this generation.
Keep fighting.
Well,
thank you for that.
And you know,
one of the things that I,
when I go to colleges that I talk to students about night,
I just spoke at,
um,
turning point USA did their student action summit,
which was great.
Peterson spoke there at Greg Gutfeld and,
and,
uh,
Candice Owens,
Charlie Kirk,
uh,
Kyle could Shubie was actually like a Reuben report reunion basically.
Um,
but one of the things that I always say to these kids,
it's like if you think that you're kind of not saying what you think right now,
if you think that your silenced and your teachers are teaching nonsense and all
these things,
if you don't stand up now,
do you think it's going to be any better in three years?
Do you think it's gonna get any better magically in four years?
The people that want to take away your rights,
that want to silence you,
they have no problem doing it.
Now,
I'm not saying be as awful as them be a little better than them.
It's not that hard.
They're pretty awful.
Be a little better than them.
But if you,
what would it be like for your kids if you're 18 right now you're in college,
right?
You're a freshman in college.
You're getting indoctrinated with this leftist craziness,
right?
And this intersection of lunacy and all of this stuff.
It's like,
do you think that if you don't fight it when you're young,
you're 18 you've got,
you know,
a chip on your shoulder and you've got energy and enthusiasm and you're ready to
take on life.
It's like if you don't do it,
then you're not going to suddenly be 27 and you're going to be married and have
car payments and a mortgage and a dog and a blah,
blah,
and your back's gonna hurt and a whole bunch of other stuff and be like,
and now I'm going to take on the world.
Actually,
you'll never do it.
So,
so do it now before it's too late.
I would say that to somebody that doesn't agree to me.
Um,
okay.
Uh,
all right.
You know what?
Let's not,
let's throw to a wide shot for a second,
just so people can see how many mugs I'm surrounded by here.
We've got a lot of mugs,
people,
there's a whole bunch of them on the left side of me too.
We've got mugs being signed every which way.
So if you guys want to jump in on a Mug,
I'm guessing we probably have around 50 left,
maybe of the stash.
I'm going to have room in my closet again.
I can't believe it.
Uh,
it's Dave ruben.com/donate and uh,
and you'll get a,
you'll get a mug and we're going to send you a tee shirt.
I've got a couple on sidelines down here and I'm giving shout outs to anyone
that jumps on $5 and above.
So there you go.
I'm Dave,
I'm a huge fan of yours in Collin.
Moriarity uh,
your show first introduced me to him.
I hope you and Collin can find a way to do more interviews together even though
you'll no longer be on patron.
I Love Collin.
Uh,
you know,
one of the beauties of this show is that I've,
you've watched me in real time become friends with some of my best friends now.
You know what I mean?
Like,
obviously Jordan and I and,
and you know,
Sam and his wife just came over for dinner the other night and Collin and I
become best of friends and people goes in,
has become an incredibly close friend and guide,
sad and,
and a whole.
And Eric has become like an older brother to me and I love Brett and the whole
crew.
It's like these things have happened in real time in front of you.
It's really cool.
It actually,
one of the things that I love doing about this most,
it's like not only do I get to learn from these people every week,
like I really,
I,
I sit here and listen.
It's why I don't sit and stare at notes and go,
I got to ask you this and I gotta get you with that.
And that whole thing.
It's like if you could sit in a room with somebody and just be a,
you can learn and if you can learn,
uh,
I think it can be a better person.
So I'm a,
I'm a better person,
not a perfect person.
Got It.
Got Plenty to work on.
A shout out to Paul.
Thank you,
my friend.
Um,
let's see.
I'm excited to see what bubbles up in the near future to fill acilitate the Max
effective transfer of complex slash tricky ideas.
Each additional platform is a new opportunity to work out the kinks.
Yeah,
you're,
you're actually totally right.
You know,
one of the interesting things here is,
and I said this right at the beginning,
it's like Jordan and I are working on this thing.
There are a zillion people that work want to work on a zillion different things.
There are people that are saying,
you got to go crypto right now there are people saying you've got to,
you know,
that's a two year plan.
There are people saying that the payment processors won't be a problem as long
as you're sort of decentralized a patriot in my view that they're just going to
nip us off slowly.
That way nobody knows what the answer to any of this is,
but again,
this is why.
How cool is it that there is a problem like think about this is what's so cool
about being a human and being alive in a free society,
right?
It's like there is a problem.
You guys see a problem,
you watching this right now you see that there's a problem.
I happen to be one guy talking about that problem,
but you might be able to solve it and maybe what you do,
the amount of people that have reached out to us,
it's like,
guess what?
We do read our emails.
Sometimes people reach out to Jordan and he forwards me something.
He says,
what do you think about this?
Or I forward it to Eric and I go,
this might seem like something.
So we're all trying to figure it out.
Doesn't mean that there's a,
you know,
everyone is like I saw when I announced that I was leaving patron,
I saw a couple verified people on Twitter go after me.
Like,
oh you see,
well if you,
if you really wanted to fight free speech,
you wouldn't just get off Patriot and you'd get off Twitter.
You get off Facebook,
you get off youtube and it's like,
you know what?
Everyone can sit there and complain about everything and bitch and Moan about
how everyone's not perfect,
but sometimes,
sometimes some people stand up and do something.
I think that's what we're doing here.
I really do.
All right.
Shout outs to Jonas,
to Ian,
to Amanda.
Oh,
to Amanda Lee.
Amanda Lee,
who I just sent you a note.
Uh,
your brother reached out over the holidays.
I'm sorry I didn't get it to you before Christmas.
Uh,
but you are a student at Ucla and you just completed the El sets.
Congratulations.
There you go.
Um,
okay.
Uh,
Holy Shit.
There's a lot going on here.
We,
the people are super proud of what you're doing.
Have you reached out to get Matt Christiansen on the show?
He's welcome to come on.
I don't know that I've reached out to him specifically.
I'd like to do it in studio.
He's in like Montana or something.
But yeah,
if he's watching what Matt,
we'll make it happen.
Um,
support from Australia where the world has also gone bat shit crazy.
Hoping to see Jordan Peterson here in February.
My government already banned Gavin from entering the country.
Uh,
we've got about about 10 stops in Australia.
They sold out crazily quickly.
So then we're supposed to be going after Australia.
We go to New Zealand.
I actually can't go to New Zealand.
Unfortunately.
I would love to go to New Zealand.
It's like how many chances does someone get to go to New Zealand?
But my family,
uh,
my folks and my,
brother and sister and spouses and kids and everything,
we do one week of vacation a year together and that happens to be then,
so I'm leaving Australia,
uh,
so I'm missing,
I'm,
I'll be at all to show is up until the 16th in Sydney.
Then I'm going to miss like two or three shows.
Jordan goes to New Zealand and then from there,
uh,
he's then going back to Australia.
But it doesn't make sense for me to fly all the way back across the world,
uh,
to do that.
Although I've done some crazy flying things.
You know,
the craziest thing that I did on the whole tour so far was I left,
uh,
the UK on a Friday night or on a Friday afternoon to get back to Los Angeles to
go to,
uh,
to my good friend.
And former Ruben report gets Bob Saget and his beautiful wife Kelly Rizzo to go
to their wedding in Santa Monica.
So I got in that morning after like a 10 hour flight from the UK or however long
that flight is,
a went to the wedding,
had a great time,
was slow dancing by the way,
next to Billy crystal and his wife.
And I think our butts Kinda touched.
Um,
and then,
uh,
then had the wedding and then immediately the next day flew all the way back to
Amsterdam,
which was completely bananas,
but it was like you gotta you gotta do what you gotta do.
A shadow to Maryland,
to Aaron,
to Robert,
to Shawn and to Emilio.
Thank you guys.
Appreciate it.
Dave rubin.com/donate guys,
you guys truly are the lifeblood of this show.
Look,
I don't want to Belabor the point,
but I've got several networks that want me to join them.
Um,
we could do all sorts of things where I start doing live reads and more live ads
and all that stuff.
I like doing it the way we've done it.
And if we can just,
if we can,
uh,
to quote a Blanche Dubois or Blanche Devereaux as the case may be,
at least in my world,
uh,
I've always depended on the kindness of strangers.
You know what I mean?
Like you guys,
if you guys keep funding this thing,
we'll keep doing it this exact same way and we'll keep figuring out other ways
to,
to grow and expand.
Oh,
and by the way,
one of the things that,
um,
that I'm planning on doing,
so,
you know,
we had this great partnership with learn liberty,
which is a classical liberal,
a nonprofit.
And we worked with them for about two years.
They gave us some,
some of my favorite episodes.
They gave us with,
um,
Georgetown professor,
uh,
Randy Barnett,
who talked about the foot vote.
That was one of the episodes that really changed my views on small government
and we,
Steve Davies and Deirdre mccloskey and Shawn Hopwood and,
and they sponsored our episode with Phil de Franco just because they liked them.
They'd never even met the guy,
but they,
they thought they'd sponsor that episode.
So we worked with them for about two years.
They wanted to sign on for another year and I just kinda want it to go in
another direction.
So we actually do have a new nonprofit that I've done some stuff with,
but I may as well just tell you,
we're going to be doing a little bit more with,
uh,
with the iron ran institute.
Uh,
they,
I've done some live events with them,
obviously.
I've had,
you're on Brooklyn here who's been,
uh,
who's a great guy,
who's been very influential for me.
Um,
and we're going to be doing some sponsored shows with them and get them in there
because they,
because this is a beautiful thing,
they actually believe in the ideas of objectivism.
So we're going to do a couple of shows where it's objectivism verse and you'll
be able to see people sort of tangle and spar over ideas and they're putting
their money where their mouth is.
So that's actually a pretty cool.
All right.
MMM.
Hey Dave,
is there someone who you have come across that thinks like Thomas soul or who,
who are or who you think could become the next time?
It's all,
well,
I don't think there'll ever be another time.
His soul.
Is there anyone?
I mean I'm sure there's some people out there.
Um,
well I would say at some level,
although he's probably a little more left than Thomas.
I would say Coleman Hughes is,
is sort of on the way in,
in a certain respect.
Uh,
and Coleman I've had on here who's a,
who's a great guy and really bright.
Um,
I don't know,
could there ever be another time to probably not.
Probably not.
Shout outs to Gareth,
to John,
to Jeff,
to Jason to Albin and to Timothy.
And then what I do with my marker,
we got a couple mugs come in,
Troy and Nathan,
you guys are getting mugs signed right there.
Troy.
There you go.
That's your Mug,
Nathan.
It's coming.
Okay.
Dave ruben.com/donate guys,
I really do appreciate it.
And by the way,
you know,
we're not going to,
if you look at how many times we did like serious,
like fundraising over these last couple of years,
we did it.
I tried to do it maybe once or twice a year and not even that.
I don't intend on doing this type of thing all the time.
Uh,
it's just at this brief moment where,
you know,
the other thing that's funny is that,
so we were at,
as I said,
around 30 grand a month for most of the last year on Patrion.
Then the than the Sargon thing happened.
We went down to like,
you know,
25 or something.
Then I started really talking about it a couple of weeks ago with Jordan.
We went down another 10.
Uh,
then I had made this announcement.
Now we're down to like,
we're down to like 14.
Let's say on there,
even despite the fact that I have announced to the patrons I'm leaving,
but there's 14 grand just sitting there because a lot of times people sign up
and then never think of it again.
I'm going to close the account either way,
so it's like they're going to be a lot of people who may be just signed up and
that aren't that active in all of this or maybe don't pay attention to Twitter
or whatever.
And it's like,
that's why we have to do some of these things where we talk about these things
and do these livestreams and do videos and the rest of it.
A shout out to Heidi and madness.
That is a great name.
Magnus,
you are getting a mug.
Okay.
Right there.
I'm going to write your name on it because Magnus is an all star name.
Magnus.
Okay,
you're getting a Mug,
brother.
There you go.
All right.
Let's see.
MMM.
Paying for freedom.
How much for a Mug,
Dave?
ruby.com/donate if you sign up for 50 bucks a monthly,
we're going to send you a mug right now and I'm going to sign it for you.
Um,
you said speaking in Montana at the University of Wyoming,
uh,
as a graduate of both Montana State Bozeman and university of Wyoming Laramie.
I forgive you for the mix up.
Keep up the battle.
Dave.
I've got a lot on my mind lately.
It was university of Wyoming at Laramie.
That's where it was.
Uh,
and that was,
that was fun.
I actually went out with some of the,
uh,
the students there from turning point after we had a good time except in like
bottle of ketchup exploded on me,
which actually did happen.
Um,
let's see.
To determine someone's true convictions look no further than the personal
sacrifices they've made to uphold them.
Love you Dave,
and keep up the great work,
Tim.
Thank you.
Well,
thank you Tim.
I appreciate that.
Um,
these attacks are not new.
The banks had been strangling gun manufacturers and sellers for years.
Are you interested in speaking out on other rights?
Well,
that would be interesting.
Just to find out a little bit more about that.
I've,
I've heard that,
I've heard that from people that work in the adult film business that they've
said they have all sorts of problems with payment processors and things like
that.
Again,
this is where I would say that generally if,
if I was running things and I don't want to run things,
but I would say if you're following the laws of the country and Americans case,
the state that you live in,
that,
that everything basically should be allowed.
If you're breaking those laws,
then we have a different problem.
Um,
but yeah,
that's where I would fall out on that.
Um,
what are your thoughts on Bitcoin?
Do you think it could replace normal currency?
So first off,
we are accepting bitcoin now.
Uh,
we're also accepting bitcoin cash.
We're looking into light coin in theory,
him and a couple of the others.
But our bitcoin address is at [inaudible] dot com slash donate.
I have a lot to learn on crypto.
Trust me,
I'm trying to learn.
I have a whole bunch of calls tomorrow talking to crypto people on all sorts of
different fronts.
Um,
look,
because it's on the blockchain and it's not centralized,
um,
there is a power to this type of currency that I think will,
will be more important as we move forward.
There's still all sorts of problems related to how quickly you can do
transactions and is it really,
is it,
uh,
money the way caches where you can quickly do transfers or is it more of like a
gold standard sort of thing?
Um,
I got a ton to learn so I don't even want to speak out of school here,
but I,
but I promise you that I'm,
I'm learning as fast as I can.
Um,
okay.
are the donations through Patrion or other that you receive tax?
Yeah,
they are.
I have to report everything and we just,
I just did my year in taxes with my accountants.
It was not pretty.
You want to become a,
you want to become a libertarian pretty quick start paying taxes.
Um,
hey Dave just transferred from Patrion to your platform monthly.
Thank you very much.
Same with Jordan B.
Peterson.
Do you know if bill whittle would love to see you talk with them?
Yeah,
it had bill a little on bout a year ago.
Uh,
check it out.
Just put his name in slash Ruben report and Rubin report in the,
uh,
and the thing there.
All right.
We are about an hour and a half in.
Holy Cow.
I had been talking for a long time.
Um,
let's,
let's throw it in the wide shot because I'm surrounded by mugs.
There's a whole bunch of mugs you can't even see over there.
Um,
and remember,
you can get the t shirt,
the Rubin report,
tee shirt at 25,
and we'll send these things out to you pretty quick.
We'll try to get all these out within a,
within a day or two.
My guys are gonna kill me for saying that.
Um,
but we will do the best we can on that,
uh,
to get these out to you.
And yes,
these will never be printed.
And where am I looking over here?
These will never be printed again because these were the shirts that we were
given out to our patrons.
So we had about 200 of them or so left.
And,
uh,
we're clearing out stock here at the Rubin report today.
Uh,
let's see,
um,
uh,
exciting to witness the birth of a cultural paradigm where people have different
ideas unite under the ages of good faith and reason.
Discussion.
Let's make history one dark conversation at a time.
Let's do it.
Let's roll.
Um,
what is your opinion on Brazilian Prime Minister?
Uh,
Baldassar both Sarner row,
uh,
regarding,
oops,
there's a lot of things moving here.
Deforestation of the rainforest.
Ps,
I'm a Christian.
I bake you a cake though.
Uh,
you know,
I don't know enough about him.
Um,
but it sounds like he really hates Marxism and he's,
and he's really pushing Brazil to become more of a world leader and that he
actually is for capitalism and he's trying to get some of the SJW stuff out of
the schools.
I just saw a tweet by him a day or two ago.
So on that front and as again,
I don't know a ton about him.
That all sounds good to me.
Um,
and as a,
as a Christian,
I appreciate your offer to bake me a cake.
Um,
that,
that would be very a nice view.
Thank you very much.
Um,
let's see,
uh,
shout outs to mill high to William,
to Trenton,
to Daniel,
to Juanita,
to Henrik,
to Greg,
to Sam to Alexis and to Andrew.
Thank you guys very much.
Men.
You got look,
you know,
I said before that when we originally went on Patrion the night before,
I was like,
I don't know,
did I just destroy my career that I just cause,
uh,
my partner and my friends to,
to not have jobs anymore and the whole thing.
And uh,
you know,
look,
I knew this time coming through because we have a couple of different revenue
sources.
So,
so fan funding is the bulk of it.
As I said,
patron has been about 60 to 70% of our rev.
Uh,
there is youtube red.
But the problem with building a business around youtube rev is it goes like
this.
You just never know when it's going to go up and down.
It's also seasonal where it gets better in like November and December before the
holidays and then January,
February are pretty bad.
And with the monetization and all that,
uh,
we also do audio.
A podcast reads,
that's one way we do it.
Uh,
and as I said,
there would be plenty of opportunities if I right now want it to start doing ads
just this way,
just on youtube like this,
we could make a shit ton of money.
I mean far more than I was making on Patrion.
I just don't know that that's the route that I want to go.
I don't begrudge anyone for doing it.
You know,
it's funny when when Shapiro does it,
it's become part of his shtick.
It's actually kind of fun when he does it.
I just,
I just like doing it this way.
Also be for the purposes of the conversation,
and this is not a knock on anybody,
but for the purposes of the conversation,
when I sit in this room and they closed that door,
we go straight through.
We do not edit for content.
I sit there,
I look at that person,
uh,
I stare at them in the eyes and we,
and we go for it.
Right.
And I don't know that I would want to be stopping to read ads in the middle of
that.
Again,
that's not smirking anybody the way anyone has to do anything.
It's just what I've become accustomed to in the more that,
uh,
the more that you guys allow me to do that.
I think the,
the better work that I could do a shout outs to Christian and to Stefan.
Thank you guys.
Um,
okay.
Here we go.
Um,
Dave,
I love your content as well as the IDW as a whole.
I just wanted to make sure you're subscribed to Pewdie Pie.
Please confirm.
I am subscribed to Pewdie Pie.
I don't know if it's actually through the Ruben report youtube channel.
Uh,
but it through.
I have another one that I am subscribed to the Cutie Pie.
He's funny,
he's funny.
He did this really funny video.
He actually mentioned me in a video about the whole patrion thing,
uh,
maybe a week or two ago.
But he just does these Holly,
he opens this video like,
and it's like this mock sort of cartoony CNN and he's like,
hi,
I'm Gloria Borger.
And it's like,
what?
He's just,
the guy is just funny.
I like them.
Um,
let's see.
Thanks for what you do.
You should interview retiring a representative Trey Gowdy about free speech and
regards to national security and censorship there in,
I would be happy to do that.
Let's see if we can reach out to him.
Good idea.
Uh,
have Neil Ferguson back on to discuss what's going on with credit processors
from a historical perspective?
What a great idea.
I got to tell you,
one of the interviews,
I knew that,
that Neil was a,
was a,
uh,
a brilliant historian and was outspoken and all that,
but I did not fully expect him to be the absolute power house that he was.
He,
he flew in,
he like walked,
he had just landed.
He walks any like pound some water.
He sits down and he just goes,
and we did,
I think about an hour and 20 minutes and we could have done much more,
but he had to jump back on the plane.
Uh,
but he's a brilliant,
brilliant guy.
He's,
his wife by the way,
is Ion Hirsi Ali.
And He,
when he talks about her,
the interview,
it's like,
you know,
some people who could talk about their wife or their husband and they're just
like saying something nice and it just meeting us.
But the,
the way that he talks about that woman,
it's like,
wow,
that is,
that is what love really is.
Um,
will you work with software engineers to create solutions with freedom as a core
value?
Yeah.
This is what people are reaching out to us.
As I said,
I'm not making this up.
Well,
I got Google engineers reaching out to me.
I got people at Facebook reaching out to me.
We're going to try to figure this all out.
Um,
it's a lot to chew off.
Uh,
Shawn m a shout out Leonard a shout out and Sean Wwa for a Mug.
All right.
I got five more mugs right there and a bunch over there.
Let's get rid of all these mugs people.
There we go.
Another mug.
Go.
Kay.
Um,
let's see,
um,
much of the talk between you and your colleagues highlights the issues around
radical leftist indoctrination at universities.
Are there still reasons to pursue an education at these institutions in the
current climate?
Ah,
this is such a tough question and I get this a lot because I speak at colleges.
Look,
there are a million reasons to go to college.
I think that that are,
aren't necessarily the academic reasons.
Let's,
let's just put academia side for a second.
There are social reasons.
Meeting people from different walks of life,
meeting people from different parts of the country or different parts of the
world.
Living in a dorm,
living in,
you know,
when you move off campus maybe,
and you live in a small house with some friends,
like learning how to socialize with other people,
not under your parents' roof,
but not under the roof of a where you're gonna live with,
say your spouse one day or something like that.
So there's all sorts of social reasons.
Learning,
learning Tata hang out and have fun and maybe smoke a joint and have a beer and
what and whatever else that you're going to do to help become a person that is
all what part of what the college experience is like.
Now,
if the academic side of it is just indoctrination than man,
it's tough.
I would say the most important thing you can do is as a parent is um,
try to steer I suppose your,
your children to schools that are going to be respectful of ideas that are going
to be respectful of defending free speech.
University of Chicago is doing a great job of this.
Um,
there are schools that are still doing this by the way.
I spoke down in Clemson.
They've got a great,
um,
a program down there about capitalism and free markets that I thought they're
doing a nice job in Jordan and I spoke to a small group of students there and
then then did a big talk.
Um,
there's all sorts of schools that are doing interesting and he's Chapman
University here,
uh,
outside of Santa Barbara where I'm Michael Shermer teachers I think is doing a
nice job defending free speech.
But yeah,
if you're going to just send them,
if you're gonna send them to Berkeley to just be indoctrinated and then now
that's problem.
But that being said,
I've,
I've given talks to the Berkeley College Republicans,
um,
and they're there and they're fighting for what they believe in.
So hopefully you've given your child enough of,
uh,
of,
understanding of what the world is or the basic bones of how to go about life,
that they're not going to go to the school,
forget everything you taught and then just come out a Zombie on the other side.
But that's tough.
And,
um,
as someone who's not a parent,
it's a little bit hard for me to say that with full Gusto or something.
A shout outs to Michael,
to Angie,
to Blake,
to Ashley,
to Tony to call in to Jerry and a Mug for Robin.
All right,
Robin,
that's yours,
Robin.
There you go.
All right.
Um,
what are some books that changed your life?
Love the show and everything that you're doing.
Thanks Dave.
Um,
I like this question.
So first of all,
every book that we have,
we could go to the wide shot for a sec.
Every book that's on our set right now,
including some books that you can't see over there,
these are all former Ruben report guests.
So there's any mutual Steven Pinker,
uh,
you're on Brooklyn is teal.
There's Ferguson,
Kelly Carlin Sagat.
Um,
David from Sam Harris is over there.
Douglas Murray,
I mean Thomas Soul,
Scott Adams Ababa.
Um,
so that's,
sorry,
I've read most of these books.
You know,
the first,
the first year of the show,
at least maybe the first two years of the show,
I read every book of every guest that we had on and,
and then suddenly my schedule got so crazy.
It was impossible to do.
I also found sometimes in certain interviews if I knew a little bit less about
the specific topic of the booklet,
say I can ask better questions because I didn't,
I wasn't sort of subconsciously leading in a certain way.
I was actually going in the most open way.
So when I had Jordan on even,
um,
I think 12 rules was right.
I mean the Jordan,
I knew each other pretty well,
but there's certainly before the tour,
um,
I think either either 12 rules had just come out or was just about to come out.
I had not read the book and we went through the rules and it's like,
now I know,
I know the rules inside and out,
and he,
and he does these awesome,
really Dan,
they're truly incredible talks about them all the time.
Um,
so,
but okay.
But as two books that I would recommend,
um,
the,
the book that I would recommend more than anything else because it affected me
in such a deeply profound way,
is a billions and billions by Carl Sagan.
It's Carl Sagan.
Uh,
it's his last book.
He actually died before he finished it.
So then his wife Andrew and who's [inaudible],
who's also a professor at Cornell,
she finished it for him.
Um,
Carl Sagan,
if most of you know who Carl Sagan is,
um,
he,
but he wrote Cosmos and he did the TV show cosmos and he used to go on the old
Johnny Carson tonight show in the,
the joke that Johnny Carson would say,
Johnny Carson would always mock him and say,
you say billions and billions,
except it turns out that he actually never said that phrase.
That's why he named the book millions of billions.
Anyway,
it's just a great book about,
about the way humans react to each other,
how important science and belief are in a whole bunch of other things.
So yes,
I would check that out if I were you.
A shout out to Marshall.
Thank you my friend.
Um,
let's see.
do you think the next election we'll see more people move towards the middle
with their votes are further away from moderation also.
You're my fave,
Dave.
All right,
I appreciate that.
Um,
well I tweeted out yesterday like a six tweet thread about sort of what my
predictions are for,
for the year.
I look,
I think that the left unfortunately at all the markers over the last couple of
years where they could have done a little self reflection and said that we
shouldn't be in tight entity politics.
We shouldn't judge people as groups.
We should look at the individual more things that used to be liberal principles,
right?
Um,
we shouldn't look for the government to solve everything.
Jfk Liberal Democrat JFK is not what the country can do for you as well you can
do for the country.
That's the reverse of what they say.
Now that imagine if Bernie started saying that they would not be happy with
Bernie.
Um,
so I think that the left we're going to see like a truly bananas left that is
going to get worse and worse and worse.
What I and the meeting is going to keep feeding it and giving it all the energy.
That's the worst part.
What I think will will happen subtly is what's been happening suddenly,
which is there is a really interesting group of say,
moderate conservatives and Libertarians and some Trumpers and some disaffected
liberals who are coming together with pretty moderate stance is now,
who is the leader of that?
Like I don't think,
I don't think ultimately that Trump is the leader of that,
even though by no means do I have Trump derangement syndrome and I think he's
done a lot of good things on,
on policy funds and forget Twitter for a second.
Um,
so I think that will continue to be built that,
that group,
but it wa but it's about where will it get its energy from ultimately who will
be the leader of it and what is it like?
Is it a more moderate Republican?
Is Ben Shapiro gonna run for President?
I mean,
who knows?
Could it be Nikki Haley?
I mean,
I'd probably vote for Nikki Haley and that would really flip identity politics
on its head right now.
You've got a brown woman,
Republican.
Well,
what are they going to do with that?
So yeah,
it's really,
it's interesting stuff.
I,
my hope is that people who returned to moderation,
we don't want to look back when in 20 years from now and go,
man,
2018 2019 those were the good old days because now we're in the middle of a
civil war,
over Twitter fights.
You know what I mean?
It's like we still got a pretty damn good here.
Right for you may think that all hells that's so horrible were so mean to each
other.
It's never been worse.
You know,
read some of the things that,
that Thomas Jefferson,
who I love,
we'd say about his political opponents or that they would say about him.
It's like there were crazy,
crazy things being said.
Um,
uh,
and attacking each other and all that.
So it's like,
it may feel crazy right now,
but also this is where every now and again,
get offline and go talk to real people and they're actually pretty decent.
Um,
shout out to James,
Ron and Collin.
All right guys,
we've got 15 minutes left.
Dave rubin.com/donate.
I got a couple mugs left.
You will get an autograph mug.
Got a lot of graph right here.
We'll get you the exclusive Ruben report,
Reuben select tee shirts that will never be printed again because it was our
patrion a t shirt.
We are leaving Patriot on January 15th.
Um,
I thank you guys for being surrounded by mugs and support and love and all of
those things.
I'm just doing what I,
what I think I should do.
Who here we go.
Thank you Andrea.
I appreciate it.
Uh,
Ruben,
you and the rest of the IDW or the best,
keep up the good work and never apologize to the leftist for anything they are
truly lost in.
They're in desperate need of reasonable voices like yours.
I'll bake you a cake.
Thank you.
Um,
you know,
it's funny too,
it's like if you listen to what the media will say,
it's like,
look,
I went to this turning point thing,
the student action summit at the end of December that I mentioned and as I said,
Prager was there and Gutfeld and Charlie Kirk and Candace and Jordan and a and a
whole bunch of other people brand them.
Tatum,
Brandon,
a whole other people holler bunch.
And um,
I met when I had,
when I got there to get backstage.
Um,
I dunno if I walked in the wrong entrance or whatever,
but I had to walk through like a crowd of hundreds of people and everyone's
coming up to me and they take selfies and I'm sign and stuff and all this stuff.
And it's like these are great people from every walk of life.
They're every color.
And I met gay people and straight people and I met Orthodox Jews wearing Yamakas
and I met brown Muslims and I met all of these different people.
And guess what?
They're all conservatives.
They're all decent.
They're all human.
They're open to ideas.
I went on stage,
I gave a talk about the differences that I have with conservatives.
I'm pro choice.
I know some of them are not thrilled with gay marriage,
a series of other things.
I'm,
I'm uh,
against the death penalty.
Um,
and they still,
they still love it.
I got a great ovation afterwards.
It's like these are not the intolerant people,
but that's the way it's always going to be framed.
Which also brings me quickly to something on the media that I wanted to address,
which is you may have seen the New York Times article from about 10 days ago.
I'm on the patrion situation and the entire article is nonsense.
It's,
it's,
it's almost completely made up.
It's written by a New York Times journalist by the name of Nellie Bowles.
She's the one who did the article on Jordan and enforced monogamy from,
from uh,
you know,
about a year ago now.
And she framed the whole thing ridiculously.
She refers to me as a libertarian podcast or which I don't care about being
called a libertarian.
That's fine.
But it's like,
you're only saying that because you know,
in the minds of your ultra left readers that when you say libertarian,
that somehow means bad person.
Like if you were being an honest reporter and not someone colorizing something,
you would say Dave Rubin,
who refers to himself as a classical liberal,
but what would ever put that aside?
It doesn't even matter.
The quote she gets from Jacqueline Hart who's the head of trust and safety at
Patrion is basically in effect that Karl Sargon to buckeyed said these words
meaning the n word on the platform and you're not allowed to do it on the
platform except he never said those words on the platform.
So the whole,
that's the most important quote of the whole article that sets up everything
about why people are leaving and everything else.
Now then I tweeted at her and I and many other people did and they got hundreds
and thousands of retweets saying the quote that she gave you,
that is the backbone of the article is a lie.
And it's like there's no correction at her.
New York Times doesn't give a shit.
So it's like we are watching fake news crumble and I say freaking let them
crumble.
All right.
How do you really feel about that Dave?
Uh,
shout out to Scott and Jay is getting a mug.
All right,
Jay,
let's do it.
Here we go.
Okay.
All right.
That's fine.
Signature right there.
That might be my best one of the day.
You are in luck,
Jay.
I'm okay.
Ciao.
Do you think you'll face legal challenges no matter what platform or payment
system you adopt?
I mean,
I certainly hope not.
I'm not doing anything illegal.
Um,
I don't intend on doing anything illegal.
We're all,
all of us are just trying all,
I can't say all of it.
What I can tell you that most of the people that are,
I'm talking to about these things from the Weinstein brothers to Jordan and
everybody else,
it's like we want to have,
we want to be able to be on platforms where the information is not being
manipulated,
where people are getting,
with what they're subscribed to,
where if you send a tweet out that it's not going to be shadow band,
that you can make an honest dime,
et Cetera,
et cetera.
We're not trying to revolutionize the world.
Nobody wants to fight Google.
Did you think that seems fun?
Biting Google that's bite mastercard,
like,
you know,
I,
I'd rather play video games and go play basketball and take a walk with my dog.
You know what I mean?
It's like,
that's just true.
So it's like,
do I think we're gonna face legal challenge everywhere?
I mean,
this is all part of,
I suppose,
growing a business and we're going to have to think through all of these things,
but that's why these are not,
I know people want the silver bullet right now.
They want the magic answer right now.
Just be patient,
be patient.
And that's why,
as I said a couple of times now,
it's like we're going to get off Patrion for now.
We're gonna move everybody over to our website that eliminates the middleman.
We may have to deal with the payment processor issue at some point,
but hopefully we'll be able to fold that into whatever else we're doing.
But right now it's,
if you dig what I'm doing here and you want to support it,
you have a way to do it at Dave rubin.com/donate.
So there you go.
Um,
Dave,
while you go on this adventure,
remember you're not alone.
Keep the words of Cs Lewis close to your heart.
Adventures are never fun while you're having them.
I love that quote actually.
Um,
I'm very aware of that.
Trust me.
Like,
trust me,
trust me.
I've been able to go across the world and the last year and meet so many people
who are so kind and decent and it has made me a better person.
It just has.
And like when people come up to you and say,
Oh,
you know,
you affected me this way,
or I watched you and I shared this thing and now my brother and I aren't
fighting so much,
or whatever it is,
it's like,
it's real,
man.
It's real.
I think I've told this before,
but,
um,
one of the shows that we did with Jordan,
I forgot,
I think we're in the UK.
Um,
there was,
uh,
a father and son at the show by coincidence and the sun was like 16,
and they hadn't,
I'm slightly butchering this.
The son was like 16,
and they hadn't seen each other in four years and they both just happened to be
at the show and then saw each other started hysterical crying.
They came backstage after like,
like amazing things are happening if you open your eyes to it.
And sometimes it just has to be,
uh,
offline to make it happen.
Much respect for your decision,
Dave.
You're on the right side of history.
Don't abandon your path.
Yeah.
You know what I better to do than save the world.
Uh,
um,
Jacob.
Thank you Vidar.
Thank you Ryan.
Thank you,
Mike.
Thank you.
Kay.
Carla.
Thank you.
Um,
all right guys.
10 more minutes.
If you want a Reuben Select Mug,
that will never be created again because they were created for patron.
I'll sign it right here for you.
50 bucks on a monthly donation.
Dave rubin.com/donate t shirts are right here.
I feel like I should be selling the,
the set it and forget it.
Chicken.
Where's Ron Popeil when you need them.
Tony.
Thank you,
Laura.
Thank you.
I'm super chat.
I really enjoyed watching your channel and exploring how you went into things
openly and listening.
You're doing a great job.
You started my journey on educating myself on current day topics and asking
harder questions.
I love to hear that.
That's what it's all about.
Um,
you,
Jordan and Sam are the real defenders of free speech.
Is there anything patrion slash Twitter can say do to regain the trust of true
liberals like you guys?
Look if right now,
look,
there's someone at Patrion watching this,
right?
Like maybe Cottey is watching this right now,
or Jacqueline heart or,
uh,
some of our other representatives over at patron.
If you guys are watching this right now for,
hey,
this is nothing personal to you.
I am just doing what I think is right because you guys are not defending
principles that I believe are the most fundamental basic American principles.
We have to be able to exchange ideas with each other.
We have to be able to exchange money with each other.
We have to be able to interact with each other.
Now I get it.
All these other platforms are doing things.
Twitter's manning people,
Facebook bans,
people,
et Cetera,
et cetera.
I felt this was the right one to fight.
Um,
but coffee,
if you're watching this right now or any representative at Patrion,
if you want to come in here and talk about these things and,
and tell me why.
I'm wrong about this.
Tell me why the platform isn't going to do this again now I'd welcome it.
Would I believe you?
Probably not because you already told me that only manifest observable behavior
mob would get someone kicked off the platform and that's not what happened in
this case.
And you also lied to the New York Times and the New York Times doesn't care that
you're lying by saying this happened on your platform,
which it didn't happen.
Um,
but I,
but I want these things to be better.
That's the funny thing.
It's like when people,
people,
if I complained about youtube,
right,
people will be like,
oh,
you what you want.
You know,
you should just get off you too.
I said this before and it's like,
no,
you complain about things and you fight for things to be better so that
hopefully your voice can be heard.
That is,
that is the essence of expressing what freedom is.
Being a free person in a free society doesn't just mean laying there and taking
it all the time.
It means that you use what you can use.
Whatever those tools are within the context of being a free person to hopefully
affect things better.
So if enough of us rose up and said,
you know what?
Patrion we're not going to take this.
Maybe they would change their minds.
Maybe there has to be,
I know there are a couple people,
probably a patriot who have a flickering brain cell who are probably watching
this or watched some of the videos.
The Jordan I did or,
or notice that Sam left or whatever that are going.
Maybe this is the wrong thing and that's why.
That's why the people that want to d platform,
everybody are,
are they're afraid of ideas.
They're afraid that if you hear an idea,
it could completely change what you think about everything and you'll turn
against them.
Well,
you might because their ideas are often pretty bad and they don't want,
they don't want to defend their ideas,
so they think,
okay,
it's easier to just call someone a racist and d platform them.
Now I'm in the winter,
which is why it's so interesting that I see so much intellectual flexibility on
the right.
These days we're conservatives will debate and talk to almost anybody and be
willing to defend those ideas.
And it's almost gone on the left.
Shout out to Rachel to Danny to will and Mary,
you're getting a mug.
All right,
Mary,
here we go.
By the way,
guys,
um,
some people have told us,
do not wash these mugs in the dishwasher because it might wash away the a,
the signature.
I'm using a very fancy sharpened he industrial strength pen here.
Uh,
but hand-wash these lightly.
That's the best way to keep the signature on there.
All right,
we got a,
we got five more minutes.
Oh,
by the way,
did I mention,
I'm going to be on Tucker Carlson tonight talking about you're not going to
believe this people,
uh,
free speech and Patrion.
Uh,
so I will be on tonight.
I think I'm on the second half of the show.
So that's a,
what's that?
Eight o'clock eastern?
So I'll probably be on around eight 45 eastern,
which is about five 45 Pacific and a,
I mean,
look,
it's a guy,
a guy like Tucker.
I'm a guy like Tucker.
Uh,
I think four years ago I thought he was like in complete opposition to
everything.
I think.
I think he's shifted on some things.
I think I've shifted on some things and that's why I said 2018 was going to be
the year of unusual alliances.
Say Sam Harrison,
Jordan Peterson,
say Kanye West,
Donald Trump.
And uh,
and I think this year there's going to be,
there's going to be a quiet revolution of sanity.
I think that's going to be what's happening here.
Um,
oh,
again,
uh,
you know,
I do want to mention,
so one of the things as we roll people into Dave rubin.com/donate,
our hope is that when we build this new thing will just be able to roll you
right into it because we don't want people to have to sign up for things and
cancel things and sign up again.
All of that remains to be seen and we're trying to figure it out.
So this is just,
this is just giving us breathing room right now to figure out everything else.
Okay guys,
we've got five minutes left.
Five minutes left.
Uh,
Dave rubin.com/donate.
Do you want these shirts?
I need room in my closet back.
25 bucks a month.
Month,
a monthly on a Dave Rubin.
Dot Conversation doing it.
You're going to get a tee shirt and you want a mug.
We're going to give you a mug.
$50 a month.
You're going to get a mug.
I'm going to sign it for you or we're going to get you the tee shirt,
the whole freaking thing.
A Christian is getting a mug.
That's right.
Christian is getting a mug.
Okay.
Five more minutes.
Who else wants a Mug?
Um,
and shout outs.
I'm giving shout outs.
Alan,
thank you very much.
Um,
let's see.
Uh,
have you seen Tim pools coverage of Sargon and patriot,
especially these interview with Youtube or law?
I didn't see that,
but I have seen some,
I've been in contact constantly with Tim.
Uh,
we may get him in.
He's going to be in La,
I think the end of January.
We may get him in here.
Uh,
is there any chance you could have in AMCAP economist onto debate Weinstein on
his ideas?
I'm not sure which Winestein you're talking about,
but I assume you're talking about Eric because he does more on economics.
Uh,
that'll be interesting.
You know,
I did a,
um,
a public event with,
with Eric Weinstein and you're on Brooke from Ari on Rand Institute in New York
a couple months ago,
which was really,
really good.
And they really got into it about regulation and maybe we can pull that off.
As I said,
we're going to be doing a partnership with Ari over the next couple months.
Um,
maybe I can get the two of them to sit down.
So hang on to that.
Um,
are the people reaching out to you from Facebook and Google doing it out of the
fear of losing free speech or these people worried about censorship?
Yeah.
I think people have realized that,
uh,
what's happening at these companies is not good and they're quietly trying to
figure out ways to solve it.
And again,
I say if these companies start cleaning up their act,
start respecting free speech,
why is it that everyone that gets banned is always on the right?
You can do,
you can,
you can literally anyone right now watching this,
including myself,
could start calling everybody are white supremacists,
right?
I could call everybody on the right are white supremacists.
I could call Donald Trump a white supremacist.
I could call Ben Shapiro,
white supremacists and white nationalists and a KKK member.
I mean these things that are,
that are wise and they're the worst sort of damaging,
dishonest things you can say about somebody.
Nobody gets banned for that.
There's plenty of other things.
If you call people and people on the left do this to people on the right all the
time.
The other way you get banned if you do it the other way.
So this is a,
this is a problem.
This is,
this is an asymmetric war.
A shout out to Terrence and Ryan,
you're getting a mug.
All right,
I've got a couple more months there.
Can one of you guys come on and you're in hand me those mugs.
Let's move these last months.
I've got five more mugs there.
Let's move them.
I got,
I got three minutes people.
Three minutes to move.
Five bugs,
Dave rubin.com/donate.
I'm going to sign your mug.
I'm going to give you a tee shirt.
Then I'm going to drink a little tea and then I'm going to see Tucker Carlson.
We've got another Ryan for a Mug.
May I have a mug right me a mug.
One mug.
Look at this.
The magic of Youtube.
Oops.
That's,
Oh yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
Wow.
You're getting the old school mug.
Ryan is getting to old Rubin Report Mug.
The big mug that I drink out of myself.
These are,
these are the new ones.
You're getting the big ass Mug,
Ryan.
All right,
there you go.
Uh,
holy cow.
Lots going on here.
All right guys.
We've got about two minutes left.
Um,
some then when platforms abused their status,
I feel powerless.
When creators like you lead by example,
I'm hopeful.
Thank you for taking the stand.
By the way,
will you vote for Kanye and 2024 good luck to you and happy new year.
At this point.
You know,
it's as likely as anything else.
We'll see.
Um,
okay.
have you considered having an open minded quantum physicists sit down with you,
Jordan and Ben to discuss conscientiousness,
truth and reality?
That can be amazing.
Who Do you recommend on that?
Give me,
give me a name.
Give me a name,
a shout out to Manuel.
I gotta move these last couple of mugs.
People,
Dave ruby.com/donate.
Um,
uh,
I read that one.
Um,
let's see.
Will you speak to the issue of American Legislative Exchange Council?
And why aren't we hearing more about the anti American policies being put into
place?
No one seems to know who they even are.
I'm going to have to include myself in that.
I'm actually not totally sure what you're talking about.
So hang tight.
Um,
hey Dave,
I'm a seasoned Ios developer here who can certainly help with the Patriot on
alternative and more.
How do I get involved?
Resume is ready.
Go Ruben,
report.com/contact.
Drop me a line.
We're categorizing.
I can't respond to all of these emails right now.
As I said,
I have like five jobs as is and now I'm like a like a tech person.
But what I'm trying to do is I have somebody that I,
that I trust who knows a lot about all of this,
who I'm forwarding all of these emails to.
We're,
we're putting them all in a database and I think maybe at some point I may try
to pull off a day where we just invite a gajillion people together to talk this
all out.
So if you,
if you,
if you are developing your are interested,
this is a good way to end all of this.
Um,
go to Ruben report.com/contact.
Drop us a line and,
and I promise at some point,
uh,
we will try to get back to you Logan.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Just a reminder guys.
January 9th,
uh,
Bret Weinstein and I am doing standup for about an hour and then we're doing a
live sit down,
uh,
in Ontario,
California at the Ontario Improv.
On January 30th,
I'm at Irvine,
California at the Irvine Improv with a member of the IDW.
Thank you to Christopher.
Um,
January 29th,
I'm at a s where the hell am I?
Cal State Fullerton.
Um,
Mama Mia lot going on here.
all right,
I'm gonna,
I'm gonna put this down unless there's the last few shout outs.
Um,
thank you guys that really like,
I'm looking at this,
I'm sitting in a room,
I'm surrounded by a hundred mugs right now.
Um,
you guys are making this thing happen and uh,
it's,
it's in,
it's humbling.
It's incredibly,
uh,
I'll keep going.
I'll keep going if you keep going.
I mean,
that's the,
that's the best thing I can say,
right?
Um,
sort of like Dirk Diggler speech,
when he first was winning the awards in Boogie Nights,
he says,
I'll keep rocking and rolling if you keep rock and rolling.
And that's Kinda of what I feel about this.
It's like,
let's do this together.
I'm one guy,
I happened to be doing this.
We,
we've,
there are a lot of allies out there,
there,
there's a lot more support for all of these ideas then you're going to hear
about,
because the other people have silenced everybody pretty damn effectively.
But maybe that's what,
uh,
that's what the beauty of this is.
Uh,
I want it to say this earlier,
but so did the year was ending and I was,
I was going away with my brother and sister for the end of the year to take a
couple of days off and I really was going to try to disconnect.
And you guys know,
I like to try to get offline when I can and then,
and then the Sargon thing like broke and I wasn't a,
I was sitting on a beach in Florida and like I had my phone and I was like,
man,
this sucks.
Like I needed to just like three or four days to just like stare at the ocean
and clear my mind.
But I know how important all this was.
And then something hit me.
It was like this was exactly how the year was supposed to and it was like it was
such a great year and everything was tracking so properly and then right at the
end it was like the world kind of flipped.
It kind of,
you know,
like life,
just life just throws you these things.
Life throws you a lemon and what do you do?
You make lemonade.
And it's like something weird just happened here.
But I think that,
I know that for me at least every time something weird has come along the road
that if I've kept my wits about myself and I've,
and I've been honest with myself and the people around me that we've been able
to make the right decisions to go forward.
I think that's,
that's what I see for myself.
I think it's probably what you see for yourself and we'll just keep going.
So this does feel right to me.
Like,
if you would've told me a month ago,
man,
you're going to be cancelling patriot and given up the 30 grand a month that's
on there and having to figure out all sorts of new stuff.
And we're,
and we,
by the way,
we're completely redoing our website and a whole bunch of other things.
Um,
I would have been like,
you're nuts.
Like that.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to voluntarily do that.
Like who gives up 60 or 70% of their company's revenue voluntarily.
Um,
but I know it's the right thing to do.
And,
and for the financial hit that will take,
even though obviously we're making some of it back here,
it's like where there's no risk,
there's no reward.
So we're just gonna keep going.
Final shout outs to Christopher,
to Bernadette and Michael,
unless someone else joins by the time I finished this sentence,
you are getting the last Monday of the day.
So here we go.
Michael is getting the last mug.
There we go.
Michael,
that's for you.
Um,
really,
thank you guys.
Um,
you know,
we'll,
we'll have a couple other,
uh,
we may do a couple of other live streams in the next week or so,
just so we can let people know about what's going on with the Patriot on
situation.
This is all unfolding,
uh,
as Jordan and I said,
we're going to be as open and honest with you as we possibly can as we figure
out all of these things.
Uh,
we're listening to you and,
uh,
you know,
I think,
I think that's it for now.
Stand up January 9th,
Ontario,
California,
January 30th,
uh,
in Irvine,
California.
And,
uh,
I got to stop talking for about an hour so that I can do this.
We've talked a relater,
so check,
uh,
check out Fox News about eight 45 or so,
eastern time would Tucker Carlson,
thank you guys.
And good night.
Wow.